FORTUNES 

IN 

FORMULAS 



10,000 TRADE SECRETS, RECIPES 
and PROCESSES for HOME, 
FARM and WORKSHOP 



EASY 

LABORATORY GREAT FORTUNES 
METHODS FOUNDED ON FORMULAS 



SCIENTIFIC AND LATIN 



FROM 

W S0URCES E TERMS IN SIMPLE ENGLISH 



FARM 

problems; 

SOLVED 



Money Making Ideas for COSMETICS, 
SOAPS, PERFUMES, ANTISEPTICS, 
WATE R-PROOFING, PHOTOGRAPHY, 
LACQUER, PAINTS, DYES, CEMENTS, 
PREVENTIVES,FUMI6ANTS, INSECTICIDES. 



AlT HEN TIC, RE LIABLE, PRACTICAL 



Fortunes 

IN 

Formulas 

NO mere advertising slogan is the title 
"FORTUNES IN FORMULAS." 
This bold title was bestowed upon 
this wonderful book only after deliberate 
and sincere consideration. 

Not everyone, perhaps, desires to make 
a fortune; obviously everyone cannot. But 
every owner of this book of magic can profit 
through its use, and some will probably win 
huge rewards, not only from revelations 
gleaned from its pages, but from new dis- 
coveries; or from new applications or uses, 
inspired by its interesting disclosures. 

We are living in an age when a new 
king, Chemistry, is daily increasing its serv- 
ice to mankind. The Chemical Age is in 
its infancy. In its growth the amateur has 
made huge contributions and has reaped 
large rewards. 

Higher education and professional train- 
ing account far only a relatively small part 
of great developments. A practical method 
for the eradication of the billion-dollar 
moth nuisance awaits discovery, and is only 
one of thousands of opportunities upon 
which cowhand or chemist has equal chance 
of rising to fortune and fame. 

"Fortunes In Formulas" is one of those 
rare "finds" upon which no one can lose 
anything, and from which one may gain 
everything. 

BOOKS, INC. 

BOSTON NEW YORK 




FORTUNES 



IN 



FORMULAS 



FOR 



HOME, FARM, and WORKSHOP 



The Modern Authority for Amateur and 
Professional 

Containing Up-to-date Selected Scientific Formulas, 
Trade Secrets, Processes, and Money-Saving Ideas 

Edited by 
Gardner D. Hiscox, M.E. 

AND 

Prof. T. O'Connor Sloane, A.B., A.M., 
Em., Ph.D. 



L 



includes 

A Guide to How and Where to Procure Ingredients 
Illustrated Workshop and Laboratory Methods 
Latin Names Translated Into English 
A Glossary of Common Names of Chemical buD 

stances 



BOOKS, 
NEW YORK 



INC. 

BOSTON 



Copyright, 1937, 1934, ^niey^uwLto'g 'company 3 ' 



COPYRIGHT, 1939) BY 

BOOKS, INC. 
All rights reserved 



Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England 



■PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 



GUARANTEE AND WARRANTY DISCLAIMER. 

This Fortunes in Formulas Historical Book information is to be owned by 
Adults ONLY! There are no Guarantees or Warranties Implied or Expressed 
as to the fitness or lack of fitness for any purpose whatsoever are being made 
by providing this Fortunes in Formulas Historical Book Information to You. 

This PDF Compilation of Fortune in Formulas 
is Copyrighted in 2010 by Wayne J. Behrle. 

This 1939 book is a Public Document and only the PDF Compilation is 
Copyrighted, But You may freely duplicate , and distribute : 
This ENTIRE Fortune in Formulas Compilation , ONLY as long 
as This complete page is included. 

For those of you who would like to send a small donation to me for 
making this PDF work available, it would be gratefully accepted. 

Wayne J. Behrle 
6050 Peachtree Parkway 
Suite 240-112 
Norcross, Georgia 30092 USA 
Due the age and condition of this nearly 900 page book it could not be reliably 
scanned, so photographs of each page are supplied in PDF format. 
Note: This Compilation is 658 MB in PDF and contained in Windows Zipped format. 

To use the CD-R disk or Download: 
Place the CD-R disk in the drive and it should open to the Folder: 
Fortunes_ln_Formulas-PDF, Just double-click on this Folder. 

For disk: If it does not automatically open: Go to the computer and double-click on the 
Drive Number like D:, E:, etc that the disk is in, then double-click the folder. 

Or for a Download: double-click to open the zipped , downloaded Folder: 
Fortunes_ln_Formulas-PDF. 
A list of the PDF pages should appear. 

This is best viewed with the Window's tool bar View set to the Details setting 

(Note: on some computers Adobe will take a while to first come up). 

A good starting place is to double-click: PAGE_001-004 GUIDE.pdf. 

This 40+ page section provides a wealth of information and an introduction to this 
nearly 900 page fascinating book. 

Note: By using the PAGE_005_008 INDEX.pdf, you can find your general area of 

interest in the book, and a second copy of this index is at the end of the book. 

Then double-click on the PDF file for the page you want, for example: Click on 
PAGE_158-182 CE-Cl.pdf which would open pages 158 to 182. 

Also the top of most pages provides a alphabetical index and so as an example 
PAGE_133-157 BR-CE.pdf would open to the pages from alphabetical BR to CE. 

ENJOY! W.J.B. 



CONTENTS 



10,000 Formulas for Home, Farm, and Workshop , 

Workshop and Laboratory Methods 

Preface ^ 

How and Where To Procure Ingredients and Equipment . X v 

Measuring Made Easy xv ii 

Buyers' Guide X]) 

Common Names of Chemical Substances xxiii 

Latin Names of Drugs and Chemicals Translated into English xxv 

Latin Abbreviations with English Definitions xxix 

Useful Information Concerning Materials xxxiii 

Note Concerning the Indexes xxxix 

10,000 Formulas 9-857 

Index 859 

Supplementary Index 881 



THE employment of many products of modern Chemistry and Scien 
has rapidly become necessary in the successful operation of the hom 
the farm, and industry. Until the present time the average person has 
been given little opportunity to become familiar with the hidden simplicity of 
chemical and scientific compounds and processes, because in most chemical 
mixtures all evidence of processing is concealed in the finished product. And 
with the employment of Latin and trademarked brand names for common 
concoctions or mixtures, the mysteries of chemical compounds have been ef- 
fectively preserved. 

So-called formulas and trade-named products often impose upon the con- 
suming public a cost from 2 to roo times greater than need be, once simple 
understanding is reached. In numerous such cases a simple mixture of two 
or more common ingredients, purchasable at prices representing a mere frac- 
tion of the price of the "named" article, may provide for the user money sav- 
ing, convenience, and independence. It is to those who may wish to become 
thus enterprising that Fortunes In Formulas is devoted and dedicated. For 
herein will be found the simple key to the mystery-chambers which have here- 
tofore concealed in darkness thousands of recipes and processes which through 
the labors of the editors are now made available. 

In order to assist users who are not in close touch with commercial centers, 
a classified Buyers' Guide has been placed in the front of the book for handy 
reference. Here will be found the names and addresses of dealers who handle 
the various articles needed in compounding most of the formulas contained 
in this book. 

Two special features will be appreciated by readers who have not had the 
benefit of technical training — a Glossary of Chemical Terms and their cor- 
responding common names, and several pages of useful information concern- 
ing the Materials Required in Compounding Formulas. 

In the chapter on Laboratory Methods, which contains many illustrations, 
will be found an outline of practically every operation necessary to the proper 
compounding of any formula in the book. 

The Editors have endeavored to meet the practical requirements of the 
home and workshop— the mechanic, the manufacturer, the artisan, the house- 
wife, and the general home worker. 

Special attention has been given to the newer methods which have recently 
revolutionized the cosmetic and perfume industry and to this end many ultra- 
modern formulas have been included on all kinds of beauty preparations. 

The electroplating trades have been brought to public notice recently by 
the introduction of chromium plating ; therefore, an excellent method has been 
explained in detail under that heading. 

■ Many of the formulas representing recent revolutionary progress in the 

vii 



viii 

a ™lkhes will be found useful and profits 
field of paints, lacquers, varmshes and polishes w 

ble. n j trade secr ets which have proved their value by 

Old formulas and so-caiiea i ^ noteworthy advance has been 

long use are also included, particularly w 

made. . . , utro ost care in selecting the material from 

In addition to exercising « modified formu las which were obviously 
competent sources, the Renters " va i ua ble when altered. Processes of 

ill-adapted to their needs but dec i ^ ^ ^ has been ^ 

^XSS sources otherwise 

inaccessible to most English-reading people. ^ 

The very lates. ^discover*: ^"^^ section offers to the professional 
of a well-known R« a f t ^her valuable information on lenses, high speed 

camera, etc., etc. Xhe Editors. 



January, IQ39- 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY 
METHODS 



__ot necessary for one to be a chemist in order to compound any 
recipes given in this book, but at the same time, the greater the number of effici" 
methods and time-saving devices with which the worker is familiar, the easier it w 
be to obtain good results with the least effort. 

It is a well known fact in every trade, that if two men are given the s~ 
formula to work out, one may produce a satisfactory product while the other m 
fail. The reasons for this are that one man knows from experience how to p 
certain ingredients together and exercises more patience and more common ue- 
than the other. 

It very often happens that a small oversight or a lack of attention to det 
may be the cause of the failure to get good results; for instance, if a recipe st 
that a certain product must be dried before another ingredient is added, it is ne~ 
sary to be sure that the drying is complete; a little patience exercised at this t" 
may be the deciding point between a good product and a poor one. 

It never pays to hurry or to do slipshod work in the laboratory, especi 
when a new formula is being worked out or a new method is being tried. 

This chapter will be devoted to the consideration of the various proced 
followed by the chemist when compounding recipes and also to the mechanical 
which lie employs as time savers. The several procedures will be taken up. 
discussed in the following order: 



Ccntrifugation 

Clarification 

Crystallization 

Decantation 

Dialysis 



Distillation 

Evaporation 

Emulsification 

Fermentation 

Filtration 



Grinding 

Precipitation 

Solution 

Specific Gravity 
Weighing 



Centrifugation 

A piece of apparatus which has in 
recent years become one of the tech- 
nician's most valuable time savers, is 
the centrifuge. It is used to separate 
such substances as, cream from milk, 
liquids of different specific gravity from 
each other, and solids from liquids when 
they are held in suspension in such a 
way that they cannot be filtered. If a 
substance is so gelatinous that it will not 
settle from its solution for days, or if it 
is so finely divided that it will pass 




Pis- 1 

through the pores of a filter paper, it 
may be quickly and completely sepa- 
rated with the aid of the centrifuge in 
a few minutes. 



The material is poured into the tub 
of the machine, care being taken that 
tubes placed, opposite each other will 
weigh the same; the whirling action 
quickly forces the heavier particles to 
the bottom of the tube and the lighter 
substance to the top, the two portions 
may then be very easily separated by 
pouring one from the other. 

Centrifuges are made in various sizes 
from the small hand type, costing about 




FJr. a 

$20.00 up to very large sizes costing 
several hundreds of dollars and operated 
by electricity or steam. Four types oT 
centrifuges are illustrated; Fig. 1 is op- 
erated by hand, Fig. 2 by water and Fig. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP ANU — 



8 by electricity. _ The type with the per- 
forated holder is use d to dry gr^p 
tates by expressing the moisture tnro b 




Fig. 3 




the strainer. Fig. 4. A good centri- 
fuge may attain a speed of 4,000 revo- 
lutions per minute. 

Clarification 

When a substance is prepared for the 
market it is a matter of pride to a good 
•workman to make his product as pleas- 
ing to the eye as possible. If the article 
in question is a liquid he will try to 
have it crystal clear. It may be out of 
the question to centrifuge such a sub- 
stance and for this reason some other 
means must be found for removing any 
cloudiness. There are several ways in 
which this may be accomplished depend- 
ing upon the composition of the article. 

Finely divided particles which fail to 
settle out, may sometimes he made to 
adhere to a coarser substance which 
settles quickly and the two may then be 
removed together. In each instance 
something should be chosen which is in- 
soluble in and is not effected by any 
of the chemicals used in the original 
preparation. Paper pulp may serve the 
purpose. If this fails charcoal, or pure 
talc may be employed. Liquids which 
will stand boiling may be cleared by 
adding the whites of several eggs, thor- 
oughly mixing them top-ether and then 
heating the mixture to 80°C. or higher 
The coagulation of the albumen of the 



ecirs will gather all of the suspended 
ctrticlcs together and when the liquid 
is filtered it will be found to be per- 
fectly clear. 

Crystallization 

This process is employed when It is 
desired to purify certain chemicals. The 
ordinary chemicals of commerce often 
contain impurities which must be re- 
moved before the chemicals are fit to be 
used. The principles of crystallization 
are as follows: When certain sub- 
stances are dissolved in water until the 
water cannot take up any more, the re- 
sulting solution is known as a saturated 
solution. This solution is filtered to re- 
move insoluble impurities and if the 
water is allowed to evaporate, the dis- 
solved substance will be left behind, con- 
siderably improved in quality. Under 
these circumstances a great many sub- 
stances assume regular and symmetrical 
forms known as crystals. If several 
substances are present at the same time, 
they separate in proportion to their con' 
centration and in proportion to their 
solubility. 

If the soluble impurities are present 
in relatively small amounts, it is 
possible to crystallize out the principal 
substance to a very large degree before 
the impurity begins to separate, if the 
remaining solution is then discarded the 
crystals will be quite pure. If these 
are redissolved and again crystallized in 
the same manner, they can be regained 
almost chemically pure. 

The slower the process of evaporation 
the larger the crystals will be. Stirring 
produces small crystals. Some chemical 
salts form beautifully colored crystals 
and with care some may be made to 
grow to a considerable size. Copper 
sulphate lends itself to crystallization 
very readily and if a solution of this 
salt is made and set aside undisturbed 
for slow evaporation, it is possible to 
select a perfect crystal from among the 
small ones which first separate and to 
discard the others. If this perfect 
crystal is returned to the solution and 
the evaporation continued, the crystal 
may be allowed to grow to almost un- 
limited size. If the crystal is dried and 
coated with shellac to prevent loss of 
moisture, it may be kept as an inter- 
esting ornament. By selecting certain 
chemical salts of different colors, such 
as potassium bichromate, potassium fer- 
rocyanide, etc., an instructive exhibit of 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 



LABORATORY METHODS 



the various forms of crystals may be 
prepared. 

Decantation 

Precipitates which settle rapidly and 
which are insoluble in water may be 
washed and purified by decantation. 
This is a time saving operation as com- 
pared with washing by filtration. A 
large volume of water is added to the 
precipitate in a decantation flask which 
is then shaken vigorously and the pre- 
cipitate allowed to settle. When this 
has occurred the water may be poured 
off, carrying with it any foreign matter 
which may be present. This process 
may be repeated until the washed pre- 
cipitate remains in a state of relative 
purity. Flasks of the type illustrated 
below, called decantation flasks, are es- 
pecially adapted to this purpose. 

A decantation flask is shewn in Fig. 5. 




Pig. 5 

Dialysis 

Dialysis is a process which permits 
the separation of a crystalline substance 
from a colloidal or gelatinous one when 
both are present in the same solution. 
Crystalline substances readily pass 
through various animal and vegetable 
membranes while colloids do not, there- 
fore if a mixture consisting of two sub- 
stances of this nature are placed in a 
sac made of an animal membrane or a 
vegetable one such as collodion and the 





Fig. B 

sac immersed in running water the 
crystalline salts will pass through the 
tnemhrane and leave the gelatinous sub- 
stance behind. Figs. 6 and 7. 



Distillation 

Distillation is used for the purposi 
purifying water and other liquids „ 
also for the separation of liquids of 
different boiling points from each other 
The theory of distillation is as follows- 
If a solution is boiled it is changed to 
a vapor, if this vapor is then cooled in 
a separate vessel it returns to its 
original state and any solid substance 
which was present remains in the vessel 
which was heated. If two liquids of 
different boiling points such as alcohol 
and water are mixed together and the 
mixture heated, it will be found that 
the boiling point of the mixture lies 
somewhere between the boiling point of 
water and the boiling point of alcohol,. 
Pure water boils at about 100° C. which 
is equal to 212°F. Pure grain alcohol, 
or as it is chemically known, ethyl 
alcohol, boils at about 78°C. 

If a mixture of equal parts of water 
and alcohol is boiled the boiling point 
will be about midway between 78° C. and 
lOCC. and the vapor when condensed 
will contain a larger proportion of aleo>- 
hol than the original mixture because 
of the fact that the alcohol present will 
vaporize at this temperature to a greater 
extent than the water. As the distil- 
lation proceeds the boiling point of the 
mixture will rise because more alcohol 
than water comes over and the relative 
proportion of water left behind is con- 
stantly increasing, finally, when most of 
the alcohol is distilled off the remainder 
will boil at very nearly the temperature 
of pure water. The temperature at 
which any such mixture boils is a fair 
indication of its alcohol content. The 
nearer 78° C. at which such a mixture 
boils the greater is the amount of 
alcohol it contains. , 

It is neither practical nor economical 
to trv to separate all of the alcohol from 
water bv distillation. There comes a 
time in any mixture when the condensed 
vapors contain more water than alcohol 
and it is useless from the standpoint of 
time to continue the distillation. Most 
of the alcohol is recovered from any 
mixture when one-half the total volume 
has been distilled. The first runnings 
contain the greatest proportion of 
alcohol and the last running the east 
The average strength of any distdlgg 
depends upon the length of time the still 
is allowed to operate. If the product 
obtained from first distillation is re- 
turned to the still aud the process re- 
peated the second distillate will cont" 




USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY 



a still higher percentage of alcohol than 
the first. 

It is not possible to prepare absolute^ 
pure alcohol by distillation alone 5 Abso- 
lute alcohol is obtained by adding to 
35% alcohol some chemical which has a 
oreat affinity for water and then dis- 
gftag Te alcohol with this substance 
present. Some of the substances used 
are anhydrous copper sulphate, quick 
lime, etc. Inasmuch as alcohol absorbs 
water from the atmosphere, it is very 
difficult to prepare or even to keep ao- 
solute alcohol; the highest percentage of 
alcohol which it is practical to obtain is 
about 98%. 

The essential parts of a distilling ap- 
paratus or as it is commonly called, a 
still, consist of a vessel in which the 
mixture is to be heated, a tube for con- 
ducting the vapors and a receptacle tor 
cooling and collecting the distillate. 
The number of different styles of dis- 
tilling apparatus run into the hundreds, 
but all are adaptations of the above es- 
sential parts. Stills arc made in dif- 
ferent styles to suit the various pur- 
poses to which they are to be put. 
Great care must be exercised to prevent 
the collection of a sediment on the bot- 
tom of the heating chamber. If such a 
settlement or coating becomes heavy 
enough the still is apt to become over- 
heated and it may explode. The con- 
densing coil must likewise be closely 
watched because obstruction to the free 
passage of the vapors will quickly 
cause a back pressure and the Still will 
burst, scattering boiling water or alcohol 
over a wide area, causing serious 
damage. 



Fig. 8 

Condensers are made in various forms 
according to the kind of product de- 
sired. If it is desired to get a yield 
which contains a high percentage of 
alcohol at one distillation, a condenser 
is used which will act so as to break 



up the vapors as they ascend and allow 
the heavier to fall back into the still 
and the lighter to pass on. A condenser 
of this kind is made of glass and is con- 
stricted at intervals; each constriction is 
provided with a glass bead which partly 
closes the opening. The rising vapors 




Fig. 9 

condense at the first constriction and 
form a pool surrounding the glass bead 
which when it is forced up by the pres- 
sure from below allows any vapor of a 
lower boiling point to pass upward and 
some of the condensed liquid to return 
to the flask. This is repeated at each 
constriction and the vapors which finally 
reach the cooling coil contain very little 
water, 

All parts of a still should be made of 




Fie. 10 



copper or glass and if of copper it 
should be well tinned. For efficient ac- 
tion and a pure product the still should 
be thoroughly cleaned each time it is 
used. If rubber connections are em- 
ployed in any kind of still great care 
must be exercised to prevent any of the 
vapors from coming in actual * contact 
with the rubber and to this end all 
tubes should pass completely through 
the, rubber and well beyond it. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



Heat may be applied from any source, 
but care should be taken not to allow 
the distillation to proceed too rapidly. 
If so much heat is applied that the 
boiling is too vigorous the product is 
apt to be less pure than if it is obtained 
slowly. Mixtures which boil between 
78°C. and 100°C. will produce a much 
purer product if the still is heated by 



Fig. 11 

steam or by being placed in boiling 
water instea'd of over an open flame. 
There is less chance of an accident if 
this method is followed. Four types of 
distilling apparatus are illustrated in 
Figs. 8 to 11. 

Dry Distillation 

Besides the distillation process de- 
scribed above there are other types of 
distillation. Dry or destructive is un- 
derstood to mean the heating of a sub- 
stance to a point where it is chemically 
broken up. Volatile decomposition pro- 
ducts are thus driven off and may be 
condensed. The manufacture of illumi- 
nating gas and the destructive distilla- 
tion of wood are examples of this 
process, The latter example is inter- 
esting because it is by this method that 
acetic acid, methyl or wood alcohol and 
acetone are made. Dry distillation is 
carried out by placing the wood or coal 
in closed ovens from which the air is 
excluded in order to prevent the wood 
from taking fire. The gases which arise 
from the heated wood are condensed and 
the acid contained therein is neutralized 
by adding lime which converts it into 
calcium acetate. The alcohol is redis- 
tilled to the required purity. 

Distillation in Steam 

Substances which are not readily 
^aporiaed or which are injured by a 
high temperature may be distilled in a 
current of steam. The process is to pass 



a current of steam through the mixta 
to be disblled which is also heated in- 
dependently. The steam carries with it 
some of the required substance and thev 
are both condensed together, the water 
being removed later by chemical means. 

Fractional Distillation j 

Fractional distillation is the term ap- 
plied to the process of redistilling each 
fraction of a distillate, in order to sep- 
arate several substances of different, 
boiling points which may be present in 
the same mixture. The distillate from 
such a mixture is collected in several 
receptacles, the receptacles being 
changed at definite boiling points. These 
fractions are each redistilled separately, 
when it will be found that their products 
will have distinct boiling points and Trill 
consist of the several substances which 
were mixed together in the original 
sample. 

Sublimation 

Solids may be distilled as well 
liquids, but the process in this case is 
called sublimation. Many substances, of 
which iodine is a good example, vaporize 
and later condense on any cool surface 
as a solid. In this way nonvolatile im- 
purities may be separated. This process 
is used to prepare corrosive sublimate 
and to purify benzoic acid. 

Evaporation 

When it is necessary to remove 
water or other liquid in which a Si 
is dissolved evaporation is resorted 
There are several ways in which t 
may be carried out, quickly and _ eco- 
nomically. The simplest process is to 
expose the solution to the actum ofair 
and sunlight as is done in the recov- 
ery of salt from sea water. 

If the mixture can be heated without 
harm it is heated in an evaporating d^h 
until the liquid has evaporated In the 
event that the material woidd be 
stroyed by heat it may be e ™P^* te ° v ^ 
allowing a current of a.r to pass over 
the surface or by plaong it u , a .con 
tinuous partial vacuum. A <l E «ccat 
for evaporating small amounts of liqu 
unto reduced pressure is shown 

Fi tegardless of the *«P"*' U1 * 
evaporation, the essential thing is 



this 



provide as large a surface as ; P<*f £ 
because the rate of «vaporabaa*^ 
proportion to the area of ^ the 
surface Various tj-pes of machines 
ha/e been introduced which expose to 
^ e air a much larger surface than 
would be possible otherwise. The prin 
dyk of the most efficient type is that of 




Fig- 12 

- revolving drum which dips into the 
solution to be evaporated. As the drum 
revolves nine-tenths of its surface is con- 
tinually undergoing evaporation. The 
application of heat to the drum hastens 
this process. When the crystals begin 




Fig. 13 

to separate they are removed from the 
drum by a scraper and fall into a pan 
for complete drying. 

A steady even heat is desirable for 




Fig. 14 

evaporation and for this purpose the 
dish may be placed over boiling water, 
over heated sand or over boiling oil if 
the nature of the material permits this 
degree of heat. In fact the temperature 
of evaporation may be kept at anv de- 



sired degree without any attention from 
the operator if a suitable substance is 
chosen over which to heat it. 

Several pieces of apparatus used in 
evaporating liquids are shown in Figures 
13, 14, 16. 




Fig. 15 



Emulsification 

This process is resorted to when it is 
desired to suspend a substance such as 
an oil, in a liquid with which it will not 
ordinarily mix. Emulsification is prin- 
cipally used to improve the taste or ap- 
pearance of medicinal preparations. Milk 
is an example of a perfect emulsion. 
The methods in use all consist in adding 
a gummy substance which is intimately 
mixed with the oil or fat which is to be 
emulsified. 60% of gum acacia or other 
similar substance is rubbed up in a dry 




Fig. 16 

vessel with the oil until it forms a thick 
cream. The water is then added slowly 
with continued stirring until the re- 
quired consistency is reached. Some oils 
cannot be permanently emulsified with- 
out changing their chemical constitution 
which is not permissible if they are to 
be used as medicines or foods. For an 
emulsion which is to be used within a 
short tune it is customary to employ 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



gelatine as the supporting medium, but 
if this is made so that it will flow read- 
ily it will not retain its properties as an 
emulsion for any great length of time. 
An apparatus used to hasten the process 
is illustrated. Fig. 16. 

Fermentation 

Fermentation is a process whereby- 
organic substances are changed by the 
action of living organisms into simpler 
chemical compounds. Almost any ani- 
mal or vegetable substance may be fer- 
mented and the end products depend 
upon the nature of the original sub- 
stance and upon the kind of organism 
causing the fermentation. Animal mat- 
ter, when it decomposes, or ferments, 
which is the same thing, produces such 
substances as ammonia, ammonium salts, 
nitrates, phosphates, etc. Milk when 
fermented produces principally lactic 
acid, due to the action of several kinds 
of bacteria. 

All kinds of fruits when fermented 
by yeast produce alcohol because of the 
presence of sugar. The alcohol produced 
is flavored by the particular volatile oils 
which may be present in the kind of 
fruit used. When fruit is allowed to 
ferment spontaneously the fermentation 
is caused by the various kinds of yeast 
which always adhere to fruit and to the 
yeast which is always present in the 
dust of the air. This kind of yeast is 
known as wild yeast to distinguish it 
from yeast which has been carefully 
selected and grown artificially. This 
cultured yeast produces a more constant 
and high grade alcohol than is produced 
by spontaneous fermentation. The most 
favorable temperature for alcoholic fer- 
mentation is about 24 °C. which is equiv- 
alent to about 75 °F. 

Fermentation usually takes place in 
two stages, the initial stage or main fer- 
mentation is turbulent in character be- 
ing accompanied by the formation of a 
froth on the surface; this is because the 
formation of alcohol separates insoluble 
pectinous substances which rise to the 
surface as foam. After the major por- 
tion of the carbon dioxide has been 
evolved the fermentation becomes quiet- 
er, the second fermentation then begins, 
during which the remainder of the 
sugar is turned into alcohol. Fermenta- 
tion reaches its natural limit when 
about 12% of alcohol has been formed, 
aeeause alcohol of this concentration 
Poisons the yeast and prevents it from 



Generally speaking, two parts of 
sugar when fermented will pr&uee one 
part pure alcohol and therefore, UnowW 
the sugar content of the mash the tlieo! 
ret.cal yield of alcohol may be estimated 
According to Pasteur 100 parts of cane 
sugar yield on an average 48% alcohol, 
46% carbon dioxide, 3% glycerine, .6% 
succinic acid and 1% fusel oil 

Disturbances of fermentation may be 
occasioned by unsatisfactory tempera- 
tures, by the presence of an excess of 
sugar, occurrence of acetous fermenta- 
tion and by unsatisfactory yeast. 

Acetous fermentation, it is well 
known, is very prone to accompany al- 
cohol fermentation. It is caused by 
acetic acid bacteria which are almost 
always present, but which require oxy- 
gen for their development. The forma- 
tion of acetic acid can take place only 
with free access of air, hence when pre- 
serving fermented liquids the access of 
air must be prevented as much as 
possible. 

Filtration 

Filtration is the means employed when 
it is necessary to separate a liquid from 
solid matter which is suspended in it 
If the particles are coarse the filtration 
may be accomplished by pouring the 
liquid through a cloth of any desired 
thickness. If the particles are very 
small, the filter must be correspondingly 
fine in order to keep them from passing 
through with the liquid. The niter most 
often used in the laboratory is made of 
paper, known as filter paper and comes 
in various degrees of fineness to suit the 
quality of the various precipitates, lhe 
finer "the paper the slower the liquid 
passes through and the clearer the fil- 
trate will be. As filtration P»«r«MS 
the pores in the filter paper become 
clogged up by the precipitate and filtra- 
tion then becomes slower. It is otten 
necessary under these ^ circumstances to 
adopt some means of hastening the £0- 
cess; this is accomplished m various 
ways; the simplest is, to use , a funnel 
with a very long stem so that the w«gt 
of descending Squid will have a tend 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND L 



j,cv to puU the liquid on the filter pa- 
ir 7 through at a more rapid rate, 
nother method is shown in the accom- 
anvina illustration which shows the 
tern of the funnel pacing through the 
ork of a wide mouth bottle This cork 
■so carries a second tube which is con- 
ccted to an exhaust pump of some 
ind which keeps the air in the bottle 
t reduced pressure and therefore has a 
endency to draw the liquid through the 
aper. Figs. 17, 18. 





Fig. IT FiS- 18 

For filtering a small amount of liquid 
quickly, it is sometimes sufficient to place 
a small piece of absorbent cotton in the 
neck of the funnel and a very short 
distance down the stem. Fig. 19. 




Fig. 19 



Fig. 20 



For exceedingly fine particles, such as 
bacteria and some kinds of coloring 
matter, it is necessary to use a filter 
which is much finer than any kind of 
paper which can be produced. Among 
such substances are clay, sand and char- 
coal. The clay filter" is known as a 
Betkfeld filter and is always used with 
a suction apparatus. Fig. 20. 

The filter paper used comes in various 
grades, the best paper being pure white 
and the cheaper grades gray or brown 
For very careful work, only the best 
grade of white paper should be used be- 



cause the colored papers usually con- 
tain soluble matter which passes through 
with the liquid and sometimes spoils the 
product. Funnels which are used for 
filtering should be made so that the 
sides taper at an angle of 60 for the 
reason that when the paper is folded in 
the customary manner it will only fit a 
funnel of this shape. 

Methods of folding filter paper. Fil- 
ter paper as usually sold is cut in cir- 
cles of various diameters to fit various 
sized funnels. For use they are folded 
exactlv in half into a semi-circle and 
then folded over once more into a quar- 
ter circle. The paper is then carefully 
opened in the shape of a funnel by hav- 
ine; three of the layers on one side and 
one on the other. When placing it in 
the funnel care should be taken to press 
the paper as far down in the funnel as 
it will go. If this is not done the weight 
of the liquid is apt to tear the paper. 
It is sometimes convenient to moisten 
the paper slightly in order to cause it to 
adhere to the sides of the funnel. Fig. 
21. For more rapid filtration the pa- 




Fig. 21 

per may be folded so as to form what is 
known as the plated filter. With a lit- 
tle practise, plated filters may be folded 
almost as quickly as plain filters. The 
accompanying diagrams will show how 
this is done. 




Fig. 22 

The paper is first folded in a semi- 
circle and quarter circle as in making a 
plain filter, It is then opened out again 
to a semi-circle as shown in Figure 22. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



One side is then folded as shown in 
figure 23 and again folded on itself 



Fig. 23 

as shown in Figure 24. The other side 
is then folded twice in the same man- 
ner. The paper is again opened to a 



Fig. 24 

semi-circle and will be found to have 
seven creases. The end segment is then 
folded half way back on itself and with 
this last small fold as a guide, it is 
creased sixteen times, each time turning 
the paper over so as to crease it on op- 
posite sides exactly as a fan is made. 
It will then appear as Figure 26 and 
when opened up it will be found di- 
vided into thirty-two segments. "When 
placed in a funnel the paper will 
not fit closely to the glass and the 
filtered liquid will have free passage. 
Fig. 26. 



Fig. 25 Fig. 26 

When plating a filter do not crease 
the paper to the point because by so 
lining the paper will be weakened and 



■11 i»»yci will ue w.caiiciicu auu 

w >u break under the weight of the 
liquid. Filter paper is sold already 
tolded under the name of "Folded 
filter." 

Ill order to protect this point which is 
weakest in a filter, it is sometimes neees- 
to make a miniature filter which 
nts over the point and thus protects it. 



Another method of folding « 
paper which strengthens the" weal Sir 

usual XT T KP*P« ta SdJT. 
usual into a semi-circle, next th» „-j 
AB is folded over alon^hTh^S 
CD. The paper is now turned over 



Pig. 27 Fig. 28 

AE is folded along the line EF. Wl 
this paper is opened up the point 
be protected by the presence of a dout 
thickness of paper. Figs. 27, 28. 

Several types of funnels have be 
devised to hasten filtration. In some 



Fig. 29 

these the inside of the glass is ribb 
like a washboard to prevent the pap 
from coming in contact with the sic 
of the funnel at all points. Fig. 29. 

For filtering liquids which must 
kept warm during the process, holde 
have been made with double walls at 



Of 

Fig. 81 

which may be kept * a 

burner as shown in Figs. 30-ai. 



Fig. 80 
mav he 



-USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHOD! 



Filtration under pressure may be re- 
sorted to when it is necessary to hasten 
Z process. This may be accomplished 
by attaching a long piece of rubber tub- 
tag to the stem of a funnel and covering 
ml other large end of the funnel with 
filter paper which is placed between two 
pieces of strong cloth which are tied se- 
curely to the outside of the funnel as 
shown in the illustration. If the funnel 
f s n ow suspended over a large vesse 
and the liquid to be filtered poured 
through the tubing with the aid ot a 
second funnel at the higher end, the 
pressure exerted by the long column of 
water will force the liquid through the 
filter paper much more rapidly than 
would otherwise be the case. Fig. 83. 



Fig. 32 

Grinding and Pulverizing 

Reducing any substance to a state of 
fineness may be a difficult operation or 
an easy one, depending on the material 
at hand. If the substance is extremely 
hard, recourse must be had to a me- 
chanical grinding mill of some kind. 
Numerous styles of these mills are on 
the market suitable for various pur- 
poses, from rock crushing to the simple 
pulverization of softer crystals. Fig. 33. 



stant agitation of the mass and the ac 
tion of the pebbles quickiy reducing the 
substance to a more or less finely pul- 
verized state. The powder may then be 
recovered by sifting it from the pebbles. 
Figs. 34,35. The customary way of 



Fig. ss 

In some types of pulverizing machines 
the substance is brought in contact with 
pebbles in a revolving drum, the con- 



Fig. 34 



Fig. 35 

grinding small amounts of substances in 
the laboratory is w ith the aid of a mor- 
tar and pestle. These mortars are sold 
in glass, porcelain, agate and metal. The 
substance to be pulverized is added to 
the mortar in small quantities at a time 
and rubbed with the pestle by a circu- 
lar motion and more or less pressure. 
Fig. 36. Gummy and sticky substances 



Fig. 3B 

which are not easily pulverized may be 
ground satisfactorily in the presence of 
sand, provided that the substance is one 
which may be separated from the sand 
bv some such means as taking advantage 
of its solubility or of a different specific 
gravity. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



After the material has been reduced 
a powder it may be separated into 
rtions of different degrees of fineness 
P° jjjgans of wire screens which are 
ade so as to allow powders of any 
jJLsired fineness to pass through. These 
0 s are numbered according to the 
number of openings to the square inch. 
Fig- 37. 




Fig- 37 

Precipitation 

The process of precipitation is re- 
sorted to by the chemist more often 
than by the artisan and is used to sep- 
arate certain elements which may be in 
solution, by adding some other chemical 
which combines with the element it is 
desired to separate, forming an insoluble 
compound which is immediately pre- 
cipitated. For instance, if it is desired 
to separate the element silver from a 
solution in which it is held as a soluble 
salt, such as silver nitrate, it is only 
necessary to add common' table salt. 
This will combine with the silver to form 
silver chloride which will immediately 
separate as an insoluble precipitate. 
This precipitate may then be separated 
by nitration and the silver recovered. 
Any soluble salt of iron may be changed 
to an insoluble one by the addition of 
ammonia, while copper may be made to 
act likewise by adding a soluble sul- 
phide. Any substance used to pre- 
cipitate another is called a precipitant 
and the remaining solution is known as 
the supernatant fluid. 

Solution 

When any substance is dissolved in a 
solvent, it is said to be soluble and the 
resulting product is called a solution. 
When the solvent is alcohol, the product 
18 called an alcoholic extract or a tinc- 
ture. A substance which dissolves in 
^ a ter and which may be recovered in 
*e same form by the evaporation of 
,. e water is said to be in simple solu- 
.j^n. If any chemical is used so that 
we substance is made soluhle by chang- 
„ ? its state, it is known as a chemical 
80 hUion and the original substance can- 



which^it^rafde? X Sam 1 ,0 ™ * 
tallic copper i^,^^* 
but ,n the process the copper i cLll 
to copper nitrate and therefore c 3 
be recovered as metallic c^per 

Water is the most used solvent ale 
hoi takes second place and then In- 
stances as glycerine, ether, aceC 
turpentine, carbon tetra chloride, ^ 
J h , e ™ st . us ^d chemical solvents 
hydrochloric acid, nitric acid 
ammonia. 

If there is any doubt as to whet 
a substance is soluble in water or in 
any other solvent, it is only necessary 
to shake it with some one of these and 
then to allow it to stand for a short 
time. If some of the liquid is then 
evaporated to dryness, there will be a 
residue left of more or less bulk depend- 
ing upon the extent to which the ma- 
terial is soluble in the particular sol- 
vent used. 

The principal aid to rapid solution 
is pulverization which allows the solvent 
to come in contact with as large a sur- 
face as possible. Heat is next in im- 
portance because most substances are 
more soluble at high temperatures than 
they are at low temperatures. Agita- 
tion hastens solution because it con- 




Fig. 38 



stantly replaces ^^SaSS 3 
of the solution ™" ch ™ h would other- 
rounds the sohd and w ^ fa se 
wise tend to reta ira ^ ^ raec hanical 
of its saturation- ^Xo mUe by any 
aids to ag lta ^°" ™f, y af ter the pattern 
one handy with tools , ««« £ er to 
illustrated in Fig. ao. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 

operate this machine may be obtained 
from a water motor or any other sim- 
ple source. 

Maceration. When a substance is al- 
lowed to fro into solution by simply 
©lacing it in contact with the solvent 
it ordinary temperatures, the process is 
called maceration. This operation is 
used when it is not permissible to use 
heat because of the danger of injuring 
the product. 

Infusion. When heat is applied in the 
above process by first boiling the water 
and pouring it over the material to be 
dissolved, the product is called an in- 
fusion It is used when the substance 
may be submitted to a fairly high de- 
gree of heat for a short time without 
injury. It is employed almost exclusively 
in removing the soluble matter from 
flowers, leaves, roots, seeds, etc. 

Digestion. This is usually considered 
to mean the conversion of a substance 
into the soluble state with the aid of a 
solvent which is kept at a constant tem- 
perature for a rather long period of 
time, depending upon the nature of the 
material. For this purpose a waterbath, 
a sandbath or an incubator is employed 
to maintain the desired degree of heat 
which is usually just- below the boiling 
point of the solvent. The substance 
acted upon is placed in a covered dish 
to prevent rapid evaporation and left 
to itself until the process is completed. 
It is principally used for the decomposi- 
tion of minerals which are but slowly 
acted upon by the solvent. 

Percolation. This is an economical 
and rapid method of extracting the 
soluble matter from a large mass of ma- 
terial with a minimum amount of sol- 
vent. For this purpose a piece appa- 
ratus known as a percolator is used, Fig. 
89, The drugs are first ground and 
stirred with the solvent to form a thick 
porridge which is then placed in the 
percolator. Care should be taken that 
the drug is packed so that no fissures 
are present which would allow the sol- 
vent to pass through without coming into 
prolonged contact, with the drug and 
yet not tight enough to prevent the 
solvent from seeping through. Alcohol 
of the desired percentage is poured on 
the drug to form a layer of about 3 
inches and the percolator is then cov- 
ered. The maceration may be consid- 
ered at an end in about three days and 
the solvent allowed to run off. The 
quantity of the solvent used varies ac- 
cording to the degree of concentration 



<:thods 

of the extract it is desired to produce 
The percolate is usually divided into < 
first run corresponding to about 85% of 
the extractible matter and a secondary 
percolate may be as large as may_ be 
necessary to complete the extracting 



Fig. 39 



Fig, 40 



This is then concentrated by distillation 
to any desired strength. 

Another method of extraction is that 
of shaking out. In this method the ob- 
ject is to remove certain substances 
from a liquid by means of adding an- 
other liquid in which the substance is 
more soluble. It is necessary that the 
second liquid be one which will not mix 
with the first. In practice, aqueous or 
alcoholic liquids containing aromatic 
substances are shaken with chloroform, 
benzene, carbon tetra chloride, or sim- 
ilar liquids into which the aromatic sub- 
stance will pass. The mixture is then 
placed in what is known as a separating 
funnel and the heavier one which sinks 
to the bottom is allowed to pass off by 
opening the stop-cock. Fig. 40. 

Weighing 

The accuracy with which a substance 
may be weighed depends on the sensi- 
tiveness of the scale and the skill of the 
operator. The analytical chemist re- 
quires a balance which will weigh accu- 
rately such small amounts as one-tenth 
of a milligram. A scale for weighing 
material to be used in compounding 
recipes need not be sensitive to less than 
one-tenth of a gram. The precautions 
to be observed in weighing are as fol- 
lows: Do not allow corrosive substances 
to come in contact with the metal pans 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 

of a scale because the pans will be ruined 
Lei the material contaminated. Always 
counterbalance two pieces of paper or a 
Jjjsh on the pans and add the material 
to this. Do not touch the weights with 
the fingers as they will soon become 
corroded and either increase or decrease 
■ m weight and thus interfere with the 
accuracy of the scale. Always manipu- 
late the weights with a pair of forceps, 
pjgs. 41. 42- 



Fig. 41 

The metric system of weights and 
measures is much more convenient than 
the English system and as its principles 
are learned in a few minutes all workers 
should purchase scales with gram 



Pig. 42 

heights. Most formulas are based on 
the metric system and if avoirdupois 
weights are used it is necessary to con- 
vert one into the other before the work 
can go on. 

Formulas which are written so that 
lti e quantities are given in so many 
p' E jT ta of each ingredient are adapted to 
either system and if such figures as 
wree parts of salt and one part of soda 
°f e given, they may be interpreted as 
yeaning three ounces of salt and one 
J"»nce of soda or three grams of salt and 
ii ^ gram of soda or any other amount 
. a t the worker finds convenient to em- 
% as a unit. 

it is always best, when trying a new 
r«.^^ e, to make a small quantity of a 
P^duct the first time, so as not to- 



LABORATORY METHODS 

gams experience the cheaper grades ma 
be employed with more safety. 

Liquids may be weighed or measured 
If weighed, the vessel is first co™ 
balanced on the scale pan and the liqu 
is then added and weighed in the sa 
way that a solid would be. 

A very convenient type of scales i: 
shown here. They are provided with 
eliding weight which is a great aid 1 
counterbalancing the pans in the even 
of paper or other container bein 
necessary. Fig. 43. 



Fig. 43 

Specific Gravity 

A great many people have difficult 
in understanding what is meant by sjr 
cific gravity. An effort will be made 
explain what is meant by -this term. 

It is well known that alcohol 
lighter than water and that tar 
heavier. If three vessels of the sa 
size are each filled with one of tht 
substances and then weighed it may 
found that the alcohol may weigh t\ 
pounds, the water three pounds and « 
tar six pounds. From this it will 
seen that the alcohol weighs % as muc 
as the water and the tar twice as mnc' 
We are now able to say that - 
amount of this alcohol weighs % 
much as the same quanbty of wate 
This is the same thing as sa ying that tt 



siv USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LAB OR A"] 



a bottle known as a ^'j^f^ 
bottle, Fig. 44, and then to fill the same 



Fig- 1* 

bottle with water and weigh that The 
weight of the liquid divided by the 
weight of the water gives the specific 
gravity of the liquid. It is necessary to 
feduct the weight of the bottle itself 
from each weighing before the result .is 
computed. The formula for this de~ 
termination is as follows: 
Weight of substance 

=specific gravity. 

Weight of water 

For large quantities of liquids it is 
possible to use an instrument known as 



Fig. 45 

a hydrometer which is placed in the 
liquid. The extent to which the hydrom- 



eter sinks depends upon the specific 
erravity of the liquid. Markings on the 
stem indicate the specific gravity and 
they may be read directly without anj 
calculation. This instrument is made in 
many forms which are classified accord- 
ing to whether they are to be used for 
liquids lighter or heavier than water. 
Fig. 45. 

Specific Gravity of a Solid 

The principle of this method is the 
same as for a liquid but the operation 
is somewhat different. If a solid is im- 
mersed in a liquid it will displace an 
amount which is equal to its own 
volume. At the same time it will lose in 
weight an amount which is equal to the 
weight of the amount of liquid it dis- 
placed. Therefore if we know the 
amount of weight it loses on being im- 
mersed in water, we know its volume 
and also the weight of the volume of 
water displaced. If its weight in air is 
divided by the amount it loses when 
placed in water or, what is the same 
thing, the weight of water displaced, the 
result is its specific gravity. Substances 
soluble in water may have their spe- 
cific gravity estimated by weighing 
them in some liquid in which they are 
insoluble. For instance, the specific 
gravity of sugar may be taken in alco- 
hol and then converted into its true 
figure by proportion. 

The specific gravity of substances 
lighter than water may be taken by at- 
taching to them a heavier mass of metal 
which will make them sink. The spe- 
cific gravity of the metal is then de- 
ducted from that of both together and 
the specific gravity of the substance is 
the remainder- 



HOW AND WHERE TO PROCURE 
INGREDIENTS AND EQUIPMENT 



IF the reader is to pursue either a money-saving or money-making cours 
of action in the use of this book— or even if he may proceed with purpos 
which make these factors secondary— access to the right prices and t 
convenience of procurement will add to the effectiveness and satisfaction o 
his pursuits. 

Fortunately for the amateur, there are few walls of price protection 
monopolies of exclusiveness in the industries to which he will turn for m 
terials or equipment; he will not be obliged to pay premium prices if 
may not happen to be engaged in manufacturing or distributing comme 
dally; catalogues with one-price designations are available for the mere a 
ing, from manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, retailers. Usually prices v_ 
only with quantity or grade ; many containers are returnable for full credi 
transportation cost is allowed on quantity items; information is freely give 

If occasional difficulty may be encountered in dealing with any supplier, 
if special aid is desired, mention of Fortunes In Formulas will prob 
bly open doors for you; for while your publishers take no direct part in a 
trading transactions between the users of its publications and suppliers, a bo 
of wholesome respect for the book exists throughout the world of ind 
trial science and chemistry, wherein courtesy favors are frequently exchanged. 

With a view to providing owners of Fortunes In Formulas with at least 
an introduction and a fair start toward accessibility of materials equipment, 
service, and prices, the Editors have provided "A Buyers Guide (see 
page xix). 



MEASURING MADE EASY 



It trill be noticed that many of the formulas in this book call for so many pa - 
0 f each ingredient rather than for so many ounces or other definite amounts. F 
instance, on page 145 the formula for camphor ice is given as follows: 
White wax 16 parts 

Benzoated suet 48 parts 

Camphor, powdered 8 parts 

Formulas like the above are given in parts in order that they may be easily com- 
pounded by the worker who has but little equipment. As it may not always be 
necessarv to make the exact quantity that a definite formula would produce, 
formulas* stated in parts lend themselves more readily to variations in total! quan- 
tity of finished product, as explained more fully below. 

Formulas expressed in parts fall into three general classes; those in which all 
the ingredients are liquid, those in which all are solid, and those in which solids and 
liquids are mixed. 

CLASS I 
Ingredients Are All Liquids 

The formula may call for parts and half parts as follows: 
Chromic acid 2% parts . 

Ammonia 15 P arts 
Sulphuric acid % P art 

Cuprammonia sol. 30 P arts 

In this case one part may be considered to mean one ^J^/SftS 
mean 10 cupfuls. If this will make more or less than the quan u £ and „ ne 

is necessary is to substitute one spoonful for each part if ess l ^ ^ 

quart for one part if more is wanted. The following examples win 
For a smaU quantity use the following: (The figures m e 
are doubled so as to make the fractions whole numbers.) 

Chromic acid 5 spoonfuls 

. . 30 spoonfuls 

Ammonia " r , , 

Sulphuric acid "^ZnMs 
Cuprammonia sol. 60 sp 

For a 

larger quantity use the following! 

' %y„ quarts 

Chromic acid £ quarts 

Ammonia 1 . t 

Sulphuric acid go quarts 

Cuprammonia sol. ^ 
xvii 



CLASS II 



Ingredients Are All Solids 



„. * »ii <=«liH B narts may be considered to mean ounces, 

Where the ingredients are all oohde, parts may fnllnws . 
pounds or tons, depending upon the quantity desxred, as follow^ 

FOR SMAL1 QUANTITY 
ORIGINAL RECIFE TAKE 

Borax 2% parte 2% ounces 

Glass 10 parts 10 ounces 

Soda 3 parts 3ounccs 



TOlt LARGER QUANTITY 
TAKE 

2% pounds 
10 pounds 
3 pounds 



CLASS III 

Ingredients Are Solids and Liquids in Combination 
The following formula calls for a certain number of parte of substances, some 



of which are solid and some liquid: 
Beeswax 
Water 

Potash carbonate 



8 parts 
66 parts 
4 parts 



For a small quantity use one-eighth of the figures given and consider them as 
ounces; 

Beeswax 1 ounce avoirdupois 

Water 7 fluid ounces, or a little less than % pint 

Potash carbonate y z ounce avoirdupois 

For a larger quantity use: 

Beeswax 8 pounds 

Water 56 pounds, equal to 56 pints, or 7 gallons 

Potash carbonate 4 pounds 



In cases where liquids are of such nature that they cannot be measured in fluid 
ounces, it is necessary to weigh them just as solids are weighed. Thick tar would 
be such a substance, and in this case a vessel is counterbalanced on the. scale and 
sufficient additional wei'ghis added to the pan to make up the required amount 
The tar is then added until the scale balances. 



BUYERS' GUIDE 



ANILINE COLORS AND 
DYESTUFFS 

National Aniline & Color Co., Inc. 
P Rector St., New York, N. Y. 

BaC W. e 3rtlfst.rNe W York, N. Y. 

Maher Color & Chemical Co. 
620 Orleans St., Chicago, 111. 

Andreykovics & Dunk 

N. Front St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

ASPHALTS AND PITCHES 

The Barrett Co. 

40 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 
Barber Asphalt Co. 

1900 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Allied Asphalt & Mineral Corp. 
217 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

Zophar Mills, Inc. 

591 Court St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

BARBERS' SUPPLIES 

Lewis Bros., Inc. 

142 W. 24th St., New York, N. Y. 
Buehholtz & Co. 

£13 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

BOTTLE CAPS 

Anchor Cap & Clusure Corp. 

22 Queens St., Long Island City, N. Y. 

Crown Cork & Seal Co. 

219 36th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Dipolene Mfg. Co., Inc. 

19 Pulton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

General Seal Co. 

"8 Varick St., New York, N. Y. 
National Seal Co. 

^th Ave. and 37th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

S^SfiT 8 Sealing Corp - 

BOXTLERS' MACHINERY 

? n B inc ering Corp. 
BS 60th St., New York, N. Y. 

luir & Westerman 
u * Worth St., New York, N. Y. 



Arthur Colton Co. 
Detroit, Mich. 

Geller-Barstaedt Co. 
161 E. 33rd St., New York, N. y. 

Satisfaction Supply Co. 
SI W. 3rd St., New York, N. Y. 

BOTTLERS' SUPPLIES 

Acme Cork Co. 

893 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

American Cork Specialty Co. 
115 Sutton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Armstrong Cork Co. ' 
295 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Atlantic Cork Co. 
4313 Third Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Consolidated Cork Co. 
55 Bogart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Keystone Bottler Supply Co. 
4338 White Plains Rd., New York, N. 

BOXES (Cosmetic) 

Box Novelties, Inc. 

55 E. 11th St., New York, N. Y. 

Clark Box & Label Co. 
Jamestown, N. Y. 

F. N. Burt Co. 

540 Seneca St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

BOXES (Paper) 

Atlantic Carton Co. 
Norwich, Conn. 
Baltimore Paper Box Co. 
Baltimore, Md. 

Dennison Mfg. Co. 
Framingham, Mass. 

Robert Gair Co. „ y 

350 Madison Ave., New York, «. 

Randolf Box Co. 
Chicago, HI. 

BOXES (Wood) 

^Broadway, New York, N.Y. 
United Box &L^b- 2 
131 Franklin ht., ^ c 



CANS (Tin) 
Acme Can Co. 

1150 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

American Can Co. 

230 Park Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Continental Can Co, 

100 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Metal Package Corp. 

110 E, 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Wilson & Bennett Mfg. Co. 

6640 So. Menard Ave., Chicago, 111. 

CHEMICAL APPARATUS 

Central Scientific Co. 

220 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Eimer & Amend 

205 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Empire Laboratory Supply Co. 
559 W. 132nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Fischer Scientific Co. 

709 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Emil Greiner Co. 

55 Van Dam St., New York, N. Y. 

Palo-Myers, Inc. 

81 Reade St., New York, N. Y. 

A. H. Thomas & Co. 

West Washington Square, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

The Will Corp. 
Rochester, N. Y. 

CHEMICALS 

J. T. Baker Chemical Co. 
Phillipsburg, N. J. 

City Chemical Co. 

132 W. 22nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Chas. Cooper & Co. 

194 Worth St., New York, N. Y. 

Eastman Kodak Co. 

343 State St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Eimer & Amend 

205 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

General Chemical Co. 

P. O. Box 397, Reading, Pa. 

Merck & Co., Inc. 
Rahway, N. J. 

Porter Chemical Co. 
Hagerstown, Md. 

CHEMICALS, EXPERIMENTAL 

LOTS 
R. F. Revson Co. 
91 Seventh Ave., New YoTk, N. Y. 



CHEMISTS (Analytical) 

Associated Industrial Chemists 
1918 71st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Chas. V. Bacon 

3 Park Row, New York, N. Y. 

Bendiner & Schlessinger 

10th St. and 3rd Ave, New York, N. Y. 

Samuel F. Sadtler & Son, Inc. 
210 So. 13th St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

CHEMISTS (Industrial, Consulting & 
Research) 

Associated Industrial Chemists 
1918 71st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Grinstead Laboratory 

505 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Arthur D. Little, Inc. 

30 Charles River Road, Cambridge, Mass. 

The Orthmann Laboratories, Inc. 
647 W. Virginia St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

COLLAPSIBLE TUBES 

Bond Mfg. Co. 
Wilmington, Del. 

Globe Collapsible Tube Corp. 

28 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

A. H. Wirz, Inc. 
Chester, Pa. 

CONFECTIONERY, JAMS AND 
PRESERVES 

Le Roy's International Candy Service 
1612 Neptune Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

CONTAINERS (Fibre) 

Bird & Sons, Inc. 
East Walpole, Mass. 

Carpenter Container Corp. 
137 41st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Chemical Sales Corp, 

75 West St., New York, N. Y. 

ESSENTIAL OILS 

Dodge & Oleott Co. 

180 Varick St., New York, N. Y. 

Florasynth Laboratories, Inc. 

1513-1533 Olmstead Ave., New York, N.Y. 

Givaudan-Delawanna, Inc. 
80 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Magnus, Mabee & Reynard, Inc. 
32 Cliff St., New York, N. Y. 

Riddle Chemical Co. 
35 So. Dearborn St„ Chicago, 111. 



Geo. W. Smith & Sons 
I Natoma St., San Francisco, Cal. 

va n Ameringen-Haebler, Inc. 

315 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Raker Extract Co. 

T9 Wall St., New York, N. Y. 

Chicago Spice Flavoring Extract Co. 
920 So. Western Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Essential Materials Co, 

59 Fulton St., New York, N, Y. 

Florasvnth Laboratories, Inc. 

1.513-1533 Olmstcad Ave., New York, N.Y. 

Polak's Fruital Works, Inc. 

350 W. 31st St., New York, N. Y. 

van Ameringen-Haebler, Inc. 

315 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

GLASS BOTTLES AND JARS 

Brockway Sales Co. 
Brockway, Pa. 

Hazel Atlas Glass Co. 
Wheeling, W. Va. 

Owens Illinois Glass Co, 
Toledo, Ohio 

Whitall Tatum Co. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

GUM SPECIALISTS 

George H. Lincks 

123 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

GUMS AND RESINS 

Geo. H. Lincks 

123 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

Gillespie-Rogers-Pyatt, Inc. 
80 John St., New York, N. Y. 

Innis Speiden & Co., Inc. 

117 Liberty St., New York, N. Y. 

LABELS 

Acme Seal & Label Co. 

382 Lafayette St., New York, N, Y. 

American Label Co. 

216 W. 18th St., New York, N. Y. 

Dennison Mfg. Co. 
*ramingham, Mass. 

Ever-Ready Label Corp. 

1« E. 25th St., New York, N. Y. 

?.o ndolf Box & Label Co. 
«*3 W, Van Buren St., Chicago, 111. 



LAUNDRY CHEMICALS 

Consumers Chemical Co. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

Legrand Bleach Corp 
111 49th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Solvay Sales Corp. 
61 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 
Sunshine Soda Co. 
45 E. 17th St., New York, N. Y. 

The "Ultramarine Co. 
Bound Brook, N. J. 

MINERAL FILLERS 

Chas. B. Chrystal Co. 
11 Park Place, New York, N, Y. 

D. H. Litter Co. 

110 W. 40th St., New York, N. Y. 

Whittaker Clark & Daniels, Inc. 
245 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

OILS AND FATS 

Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. 
233 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

Cook-Swan Co. 

122 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

National Oil Products Co. 
Harrison, N. J. 

Spencer Kellogg & Sons Sales Corp. 
Buffalo, N. Y. 

W T elch, Holme & Clark Co., Inc. 
563 Greenwich St., New York, N. Y. 

The Werner G. Smith Co. 
Cleveland, Ohio 

PAINT COLORS AND PIGMENTS 

Fezandie & Sperrle, Inc. 

205 Fulton St., New York, N. Y. 

Harshaw Chemical Co. 
Cleveland, Ohio 

Imperial Color Works 
Glen Falls, N. Y. 
C. K. Williams & Co, 
Easton, Pa. 

PAINT AND PAINT MATERIALS 

Bade Bros. • 
84 Bowery, New York, «. i. 

H. Behlen & Bro. K Y 

10 Christopher St., New York, N. Y. 

PAPER (Glassine) 

Baehm Co. ■w.-v 1M Y 

219 Fulton St., New York, JN. x. 

Direct Wax Paper Co. „ 
413 W. Broadway, New York, N. X. 



xxi 



PATENT AND TRADEMARK 
LAWYERS 

L. F. Randolph 

72G-B Ninth St., Ni W„ Washington, D. C 
(Patents secured and Trade-Marks reg 
jsteredj 

PERFUMERS AND SOAP- 
MAKERS SUPPLIES 

Evergreen Chemical Co., Inc. 
160 Fifth Ave., New York, N. i. 



RESINS (Synthetic) 

The Barrett Co. (Cumar) 
4.0 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 
Bakelite Corporation ( Bakclite) 
247 Park Ave., New York, N. Y. 
General Plastics, Inc. (Dure^ 
North Tonawanda, N. l - 
The Resinous Products & Chemical Co. 

(Ambcrol) _ 
222 W. Washington Square, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 



American Mineral Spirits Co. 

332 So. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 

The Barrett Co. 

40 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 

Commercial Solvents Corp. 

230 Park Ave., Now York, N. Y. 

Rossville Commercial Alcohol Corp. 
Terre Haute, Ind. 




COMMON OR EVERYDAY NAMES OF 
CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES 



Common Names Chemical Names 

AQUA FORTIS NITRIC ACID 

AQUA REGIA NITRIC AND HYDROCHLORIC ACIDS 

BAKING SODA SODIUM BICARBONATE ' 

BARYTA, HEAVY SPAR BARIUM OXIDE 

BARYTES BARIUM SULPHATE 

BLUE STONE, BLUE VITRIOL COrrER SULPHATE 

BORAX, TYNTCAL SODIUM TETRABORATE 

BRIMSTONE SULPHUR 

BUTTER OF ANTIMONY ANTIMONY TRICHLORIDE 

CALOMEL MERCUROUS CHLORIDE 

CARBOLIC ACID , PHENOL 

CAUSTIC POTASH POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE 

CAUSTIC SODA SODIUM HYDROXIDE 

CHALK CALCIUM CARBONATE 

CINNABAR , MERCURY SULPHIDE 

COPPERAS, GREEN VITRIOL FERROUS SULPHATE 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE MERCURIC CHLORIDE 

CREAM OF TARTAR POTASSIUM BITARTRATE 

EPSOM SALTS MAGNESIUM SULPHATE 

FLAKE WHITE, PEARL WHITE BISMUTH SUBNITRATE 

FLUORSPAR y CALCIUM FLUORIDE 

GLAUBERS SALTS /...SODIUM SULPHATE 

GRAIN ALCOHOL ETHYL ALCOHOL, ETHANOL 

GYPSUM CALCIUM SULPHATE 

HORN SILVER SILVER CHLORIDE 

HYp O SODIUM THIOSULPHATE 

LAUGHING GAS NITROUS OXIDE 

LITHARGE LEAD OXIDE 

LIVER OF SULPHUR POTASSIUM SULPHIDE 

LUNAR CAUSTIC SILVER NITRATE 

LYE SODIUM OR POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE 

MAGNESIA MAGNESIUM OXIDE 

METHYLATED SPIRITS, WOOD ALCOHOL .. METHYL ALCOHOL — METHANOL 

MOSAIC GOLD TIN BISULPHIDE 

MURIATIC ACID HYDROCHLORIC ACID 

OIL .OF VITRIOL SULPHURIC ACID 

ORPIMENT ARSENIC TRISULPHIDE 

PEARL ASH POTASSIUM CAIffiONATE 

xxlii 



° 0M "^MCAL = SUBSTANCES 

Chemical Names 

Common Names .CALCIUM SULPHATE 

PLASTER OF PARIS GRAPHITE 

PLUMBAGO, BLACK-LEAD '...CALCIUM CARBONATE 

PRECIPITATED CHALK ' ' FERRIC _ FERROcrANIDE 

PRUSSIAN BLUE ^HYDROCYANIC ACID 

PRUSSIC ACID * . PYROGALLIC ACID 

PYRO CALCIUM OXIDE 

QUICKLIME MERCURY 

QUICKSILVER LEAD OXIDE 

RED LEAD, MINIUM POTASSIUM AND SODIUM TARTRATE 

ROCHELLE SALT ■ ■ •■• ■ ■ ■ • • • ' AMM0NIUM CHLORIDE 

SAL AMMONIAC * SODIUM CARBONATE— CRYSTALLINE 

SAL SODA POTASSIUM QUADROXALATE 

SALT OF SORREL 

,L„«/«n SODIUM CHLORIDE 

SALT (COMMON) 

SALTPETER CHILE SODIUM NITRATE 

SALTPETER, NITRE POTASSIUM NITRATE 

SAL VOLATILE AMMONIUM SESQUICARBONATE 

SALT OF HARTSHORN"! AMMONIUM CARBONATE 

SLAKED LIME • CALCIUM HYDROXIDE 

SODA ASH SODIUM CARBONATE 

SPIRIT OF HARTSHORN AMMONIA 

SPIRITS OF SALT HYDROCHLORIC ACID 

SUGAR OF LEAD ....LEAD ACETATE 

TARTAR EMETIC ANTIMONY AND POTASSIUM TARTRA1 

TIN ASHES STANNIC OXIDE 

VERDIGRIS COPPER ACETATE 

VINEGAR ACETIC ACID 

WASHING SODA SODIUM CARBONATE 

WATER GLASS SODIUM SILICATE 

WHITE COPPERAS ZINC SULPHATE 

WHITE LEAD LEAD CARBONATE 

WHITE VITRIOL ZINC SULPHATE 

WHITE ZINC ZINC OXIDE 



xxiv 



LATIN NAMES OF DRUGS AND CHEMICALS 
TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



Latin has been universally adopted in writing prescriptions. Necessity d 
manded a uniform international method, and since Latin was the univers 
language when science and chemistry were in their infancy, its use has be 
retained throughout the civilized world. It was not adopted, as supposed b\ 
many, in order to mystify or to enable purveyors to charge exorbitant prices 
for simple products. 



Absinthium (Artemisia absinthium} — 

Wormwood 
Acacia (Mucilago acacia) — Gum Arabic 
Acetum Opii — Vinegar of Opium 
Acetum Scillte — Vinegar of Squill 
Acidum Acetieum dilutum — Acetic acid 

diluted 

Acidum Arsenosujtu — White arsenic. Ar- 

senous acid 
Acidum Itenaolcum — Benzoic acid 
Acidum Boricum — Boric acid 
Acidum Carholicum (Phenol) — Carbolic 

acid 

Acidum Citricum (Syrupus acidi C.) — 
Citric acid 

Acidum Hydrochloricum — Muriatic acid, 
Hydrochloric acid 

Acidum Hyflroeyanicum dilutum — 
Prussic acid 

Acidum Hypophosphorosuiu dilutum — 
Diluted hypophosphorous acid 

Acidum tacticum — Lactic acid 

Acidum. IV'itiricum dilutum — Diluted Ni- 
tric acid 

Acidum Oleieuui — Oleic acid 

Acidum Fliosplioricuin — Phosphoric acid 

Acidum Salicylicum — Salicylic acid 

Acidum Stearicum — Stearic acid from 
solid fata 

Acidum Sulphurosum — Sulphuric acid: 

sulphur dioxide and water 
Acidum Tannieum — Tannic acid, from 

Niitgall 

Acidum Tnrtnrieum — Tartaric acid 
Aconitum — Aconite, Aconitum Napellus 
^Ether (Ethyloxide) — Ether 
Alcohol dilutum (alcohol B0% and 

water) — Diluted Alcohol Spirit 
Allium (syrupus Attn} — Garlic 
Aloe Harbadciists (Aloe vera) — Barba- 

does Aloes 
Aloe Socotrina (Aloe perryi) — Socotrine 

Aloes 

Alumen (Alumen Exsicoatum) — Alum, 

Dried or burnt Alum 
Alumlnl Hydras — Aluminum hydrate 
AJumini Sulphas — Aluminum Sulphate 
Amnuuifncum (Gum of Dor ema ammonia- 

cum) — Ammoniac 
Ammo nit Benzoaa — Ammonium Ben- 

Zoate. 

Ainmonll Bromldum — Ammonium Bro- 
mide 



Amnion it Carhonas (Preparation Spiri- 
tus AramoTiifE aromaticus) — Ammo- 
nium Carbonate; aromatic spirits of 
ammonia 

Amnion ii Cliloridum — Ammonium chlo- 
ride 

Aminraiii Indldum — Ammonium iodide 
Amylum (Glyceritum Amyli) — Starch 
Antimonii et Fotassi Tartras — Tart 

emetic, Tartrates antimony 
Antimonii Sulphiiluiii — Antimony 

phtde 

Apocyuum (Apocymim cannabinam)- 

nadian hemp 
Aqua destillata — Distilled water, pi 

water 

Aqua ammouise (10% by weight of gas) 

— Ammonia water; aromatic spirits 

of Ammonia 
Aqua Ammonia; fortior (28% by weight 

of gas)— -Stronger ammonia water 
Aqua Anisi — Anise "Water 
Aqua Cainpliorse— Camphor water 
Aqua Clilori — Chlorine water 
Aqua Jfceenlcnli — Fennel water 
Aqua Hydrogenil Dioxidi — Hydrog 

dioxide 

Argent! Cyanidum (AgCN) — Silver 
anide 

Argenti Todidum (AgD— Silver iodid 
Argenti Ititras (AgNOa)— Silver nitra 
Argenti Nitras Fusus — Lunar caustic 
Argenti Oxidum (Ag s O)— Silver oxide 
Arnicie Flores (Arnica montana) — Arni 

flowers . . 

Arseni Todidum (Asia)— Arsenic lodi 
Asnfcetldn (Ferula fcetida)— Asaf etida 
Asclepias (Asclepias tuberosa) — Pleuris 

root . ,. . 

Aspidlum (Dryoptsris marginal™)— Mt 

A /rnpinrc (Alkaloid of Atropa belladonna 
— Atropine, deadly nightshade 

Auri et Sodli CJilorJdum— Gold and So 
dium Chloride, . 

Belladonna. Folia (Atrtfa belladonna) 
Belladonna leaves 

Belladonna HadU-Be ladonna roo 

Benxinum (from Petr P leum ^|^"" m 
Benxoinnm (Styrax benzoin)— Balsam 
resin, Benzoin . „ io „ 0 „ 
Blamutl.1 et Ammonll Citrus— Bismu 

and ammonia citrate 



LATIN NAMES TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



and 



Bryonia (Bryonia alba)— Bryony 
Bnrhu (Barosma bclulma) — Buchu 
Cafteina— Chief extract of Tea 
Coffee 

Caffeina CItrnin — Citrated caffeine 
Calamus (Acornus calamus) — Sweet flag 
CnlcU Bromidum— Calcium Bromide 
Calcii Chloridlum — Calcium chloride; 

Lime and chloride 
Calcli Hypophosphis— Calcium Hypo- 
phosphite . 
Oalcii Sulphas Exslccatus — Dried Gyp- 

Oalendula (Calendula officinalis)— Marigold 
Calumba (Jateorhisa palmata) — Calumba 
Calx (CaO from white marble, calcium 

carbonate, oyster shells)— Lime 
Calx Chlorinata— Chlorinated lime 
Calx suinhurata— Sulphurated lime 
Cambogia (gum-resin Garcinia Han- 

burii) — Gamboge 
Cannpliora (Steropten Chummomitm cam- 

phora) — Camphor 
Cannabis Indica (Cannabis saitva)— Indian 

hemp . , . 

Cmntharis (Insect, Cantharts ves\ca%ona 

dried)— Spanish flies 
Capsicum (Capsicum fastigiatum) — Cayenne 

pepper 

Carho Animalis— Animal charcoal 
Carl.o Ugni— Charcoal 

Cardamomuiii (Elettaria repens) — Carda- 
mom 

Ca&carilla (Croton elutcria)— Cascarilla 

Cassia Fistula — Purging Cassia 

Cetraria — Iceland Moss 

Charta Potassii-fVitratis — Potassium Ni- 
trate paper 

Charta Suiapis— Mustard paper 

Chenopodium — American wormseed 

Chloral — Chloral hydrate 

ChJoroformum — Chloroform 

Chondrus — Irish moss, Carragheen 

Coca (Erythroxylon coca) — Coca 

Coeninai Hydrochloras — Hydrochl orate 
of Cocaine 

Coccus (female bug Coccus cacti) — Co- 
chineal 

Codeinu— Alkaloid from Opium 
CoUodium — Pyroxylin, ether and alco- 
hol 

Collodinra Flexile — Flexible Collodium 
Coloeynthis (Citrullws coloeynthis) — Colo- 
cynth 

Oreosotum — Mixture of Phenols of 

wood-tar; creosote 
Cretu uruiparata (CaC0 3 ) — Prepared 

chalk 

Crocus (Crocus sotivus) — Saffron 
Cubeba (Piper cubeba)— Cubeb 
Capri Sulphas — Copper sulphate 
lUasiica (Hcvea) — India-rubber 
Emi»laatrujn — Plaster 
Guulanm — Emulsion 

Bucalyptol (Eucalyptus globulus) — Euca- 
lyptus 

Eupatorlum (Eupatorium perfoliatum) — 

Thoroughwort. 
Kitractnm — Extract, 
Fel Bovis— Oxgall, ox bile 
Ferri Oni-lionas Saceliarnttis — Sugared 

iron carbonate 



I<"errl Clilorlilum — Iron chloride 

Ferri Citras — Iron citrate 

Ferri et Ammonll Citras — Iron and am- 
monia citrate 

Ferri et Ammonii Sulphas — Iron and 
am. Sulphate 

Ferri et Ammouit Tnrtras — Iron and 
am. tartrate 

Fejrri et StryelmliiH! Citras — Iron and 
Strychnine citrate 

Ferri Hypophosphis — Iron and hypo- 
phosphite 

Ferri Sulphas — Iron Sulphate 

Pcinun — Iron 

Glycerinum — Glycerin, from decomposi- 
tion of fats 

Hamamelis — "Witch hazel 

Hcdeoma — Pennyroyal 

Hamulus (H. lupulus) — Hops 

Hyarnrgyiri Chloridum Corrosivum — 
Corrosive mercuric chloride, corro- 
sive sublimate 

Hydrargyrum (Hg) — Mercury, Quick- 
silver 

Ichthyocolla — Isinglass 
1 hi us a — Infusion. 

lodoformum — A preparation containing 
Iodine 

Iodum (I) — A heavy metal 
ipecacuanha (Ccphalis I.) — Ipecac 
I. in tin cut ii in — Liniment 
Linum (Linitm usiatissimum)— Flaxseed, 
Liquor Calcis — Solution of Lime, lime 
water 

Lithli Ben^oas — Lithium Eenzoafe 
JjObelta (Lobelia, infiata) — Lobelia 
Lupuliiiium (Hamulus lupuhts) — Lupulin 
Macis (Myristica fragrar-s)—M.3.C& 
Magnesia (MgO) — Calcined Magnesia, 

Light magnesia 
Siangan! Dioxidum— Black oxide or. 

Manganese 
Matricaria (M. chamomiUa)— German 

Chamomile 
Mistura Cretn? — Chalk mixture 
Morphine— Morphine, Alkaloid or 

Opium, Poppy plant 
Moschus— Musk, from preputial folli- 
cles of Musk ox . 
Mucilago— Mucilage of various gums 

and extracts „ „ n 

tfaphthalenum— Hydrocarbon from coal 

No^hthol— Phenol or alcohol from coal 
tar, derivative from coal tar camphor 

Mux Vomica (Strychnos nux-vo»nca)—l*vx. 
Vomica, Strychnia Alkaloid 

Oleatum— Acid oil from fats 

Oleoresina— Resin oils, composed or 
ether, the resins of the plant, ano 
minerals j>^nm 

Oleum— Fixed or volatile oils from 
plants and organic substances, as uu 
of Bergamut, oil of tar ,„„ 0 „ ft a 

Oleum Adipis — A fixed oil expressed 
from lard 

Opii Pulvis — Powdered Opium mAk . 

Opium (Papavcr somniferum) — fale f^ . 
ing Poppy," thick exudation of popi" ■ 
alkaloid, morphine. Heroine, etc. 

Panereatinum-Enzymes from Pancreas 
of warm-blooded animals, linzy"' 



LATIN NAMES TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



are substances in an elementary cell 
which enter food and cause a chem- 
ical change that breaks up the food 
for digestive purposes, into starch 
and other proteids 
Pepslnum (enzyme from stomachs of 
healthy pigs, etc.) — Pepsin. Digests 
3000 times its own weight of Albu- 
men 

Fepsimim Saccliaratuni — Sugared pep- 
sin, 9 to 1 

petrolatum Llquldum — Liquid Petro- 
leum 

Phosphorus — Phosphorus 
Physostisaia (P. venenosum) — Calabar 
bean 

Pilocarpus (P. selloanas) — Jaborandi 
Pimenta {Pimento, officinalis) — Allspice 
Piper (Piper nigrum) — Black pepper 
Piperinum — Neutral principle obtained 

from pepper, etc. 
Pix Burgundiea (Abies exceha) — Resin of 

Burgundy Pine 
Pix T/iquida (Pinus palustris) — Pine tar 
Plumbum — Lead. Lead combines with 

several remedies 
Plumbi acetas — Lead acetate, sugar of 

Lead 

Podophyllum (P. peltatum) — Roots of 

May Apple 
Potassa (KOH) — Potash. Combines 

with several minerals 
Potassa cum Calce — Potassa with Lime 
Potassa Sulpliuxatn — Lime of Sulphur; 

Sulphurated potassa 
Potassii Acetas— Potassium Acetate 
Potassli Bicarbonas — Potassium Bicar- 
bonate 

Potussi Bichronins — Potassium Bichro- 
mate 

Potassii Bitartras — Cream of Tartar 
Potassii et Sodii Tartras — Rochelle Salts 
Potassii Kitras — Saltpetre 
Pjroxylinum— Soluble. Gun Cotton 
Resina — Resin. Resins are made by dis- 
tilling- oft volatile oils 
Sapo — Soap. White Castile prep. Soda 

and Olive oil 
Sapo Molii«_soft Soap, Linseed oil 40, 
potassa 9, alcohol 4, water sufficient 
Mnapis Alba (Brassica alba) — "White mus- 
tard 

Sinapis Nigra (Brassica nigra) — Black 
mustard 

Se su^t (Fat ° f ° VlS Aries) — Mutton 
Soda — Soda 

S °"™ Sodii— Soda (Combines 

with a large number of bases to form 
sodium compounds, of which but few 
nave common names) 
Sodii Acetas— Soda and acetic acid 
^ pse,,I « s — Soda and arsenic 
¥' e ' lzo »s— Benzoate of soda 

Sod! rlT*??"™^ Bicarbonate of soda 
»odii Chloridum (NaCI)— Salt 
, ?" Sulphas — Glauber's Salt 
fepiritus— Spirit. (Combination of alco- 



'■Soi^r 10 of 

SpirUus Myrcia,. Sj>lrit of Myrcia-Bay 
Ferai cl.loridi— Chloride 



or 

Fetid 
from. 



Sptrttus 

Iron 

Spiritus Hyoscyami— Henbane 

nightshade, Poison tobacco 
Spiritus Iodi— Metallic element 

seaweed 
Spiritus Myrrli jb — Myrrh 
Spiritus \...r* VomicK^-Kux vomica 
poison nut of India ^ 
Spiritus Opii— Opium, Laudanum, Popov 
Plants. Alkaloids are morphme,™ 
deine, narcotme, papaverine, the- 
bame, laudamine, etc. 
Strychnia (Strychnos ntix-vomica) Alka- 
loid of Nux Vomica 
Sulphnris lodidum— Sulphur iodide 
Sulphur Lotum — Washed Sulphur 
Syrupus — Syrups are forms of prepar- 
ing- a great number of medicines, 
both single and in formulas, but gen- 
erally act only as a medium. Syrups 
are made of 850 parts of sugar and 
150 parts of water, and cannot be de- 
scribed except by formulas. 
Tabacnm (Nicotiana tabacum) — Tobacco. 
Terebinthina (Pinus palastris) — Oleoresin. 

Turpentine 
Terebinthina Canadensis (Abies balsamea) 

— Canada balsam, Balsam of Fir 
Thymol (Phenol of Thymus vulga 

— Thyme, Garden Thyme 
Tinctura — Tinctures are alcoholic sol 
tions, of non-volatile substances, al 
cohol acting- as solvent and preserva- 
tive 

Ttnctura AsnfcetidiE — Asafetida 
Tinctura Cannabis Jiidica? — Indian 

Hemp, Weed of Hashish 
Tinctura Cantharidis — Spanish fly 
Tinctura Capsici — Capsicum, Red Pe 

per 

Tinctura Cardamomi — Cardamom 

Trituratloncs ■ — Triturations — usually 
prepared with 90% of sugar of Milk 
and 10% of the principle 

Trorhisei — Lozenges or troches are pre- 
pared, with mucilage and sugar, and 
the principle, intended to dissolve 
slowly in the mouth 

Trochisci Aeidi Tanniei — Tannic acid 

Trocliisci Amnion!! ChlorMi— Ammo- 
nium Chloride and additions 

Ttroohisci Greta? — Chalk a;id additions 

Ulnius — Slippery Elm 

Unguentum — Lard (8 parts), Yellow 

wax (2 parts), Ointment 
Vinl Galliei — Brandy 
"Vltellua — Tolk of egg 
Zinci Acetas — Zinc Acetate 
Ziac-um — Zinc (Metallic- Zinc is com 

bined with a number of medicin 

principles) 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS WITH 
ENGLISH DEFINITIONS 



aS. — Of each 

Abel. — The belly 

Aco. — Accurately 

Ad. — To, up to 

Adhib. — To be administered 

Ad. lib— At pleasure 

Ad. inov. — Let there be added. 

jBg-. — The sick one 

Agit. — Shake, stir 

Agit. ante sum.— Shake before taking 

Alb. — White 

Alt.- — The other 

Alt. hor. — Every other hour 

AIv. — The belly, the bowels 

Amp. — Large 

Aq. (Aqua) — Water 

Aq. astr. — Frozen water 

Aq. bull. — Boiling' water 

Aq. ferv. vel cal.— Hot water 

Aq. pot. — Drinking- water 

Bals. — Balsam 

Bene. — Well, good 

Bib.— Drink (thou) 

Bis. — Twice 

Bis in die. — Twice a day 
Bol. — A large pill 
Brach. — Arm 

Bui. — Let St, or them, boil 
But. — Butter 
C. — A gallon 

Calom.— Mild chloride of mere. 
Cap. — Let him take 
Caput.— Of the head 
Carbas. — Linen, lint 
Caute. — Cautiously 
Cc. — Cubic centimeter. (One Gram) 
Cena. — Supper 
Chart. — Paper 
Chin, (cinchona)— Quinine 
Cib. — Food, victuals 
Coch. (cochleare— By Teaspfl. 
^och. amp. — A dessertspfl. (3ij) 
N>ch. mag.— TaMespfL, Half Ounce 
( 5sb) 

Coch. med. — Dessertspfl. — (311) 
Loch, parv.— Teaspfl. (3j) 
Colat.— Of the strained liquor 
CoIl — The neck 
Collum. — A nasal wash 
Collut. — a mouth wash 
Umimis.— Mix together 
^oncia. — Cut 
Cong, — a gallon 

r™*" ^ m -— Con tinue the medicine 

^-oq. — Boil them 

Cor.— of the heart 

Cort.— Bark 

Cras, — Tomorrow 

^Ui.— Of which; of any 

^urs hod.— During the day 

to a T A " wineBlass <3 3-13 > 
".—A day, a dose 

uec. — Pour off 



Decern. — The tenth 
Decoct. A decoction (by •boilin E > 
Decoq. — Boil down ' 
Deglut. — To be swallowed 
"glvin dup -^ Let twice as much b 
Dieb. alt.— Every other day 
Dieb. tert. — Every third day 
Dies vel D. — A day 
Dil. — Dilute thou; "diluted ' 
Div. in p. asq.— Divided In equal par 
Dol. — Pain. In pain 

Don. alv. dejec. — Until the bowels rnov 
Don. len. dol.— Until the pain is relieve 
Dos. (Dosis) — A dose 
Dr. 5 — A drachm, 60 grains, 
Dulc. (Dulcis) — Sweetness, sweet 
Dur. dolor. — While the pain lasts 
Em. (Emesis) — Vomiting 
Et. — And 

Ex, — From; out of 

Ex paul. aq. — In a very little water 

Ext., Extr. — An extract 

F. (Fac) — Make (thou) " 

F. pil. xij. — Make twelve pills 

Far. (Farina). — Flour 

Fas. lint. — A linen bandage 

Febr. — Fever 

Ferv, — Hot 

Flor. (flores). — Flowers 
Fluid, vel Fl, — Liquid 
Fol. (folia) — Leaves 
Ft. (flat) — Let it (or them) be made 
Ft, collyr. — Let eye-wash be made 
Ft, emuls. — Let emulsion be made 
Ft. en. — Let enema be made 
Ft. pulv. — Let a powder be made 
Ft. suppos, viij. — "8 suppositories" 
Ft. ung. — Let ointment be made 
Garg. — A gargle 

Gm. (gramma). — A gramme; Gram 
Gm. (gramma). — A gramme; 1 f. 3 
Gr. (Granum) — A grain; ADram 
Grum. (Grumus) — A clot (of blood) 
Gtt. (Gutta) — A drop, Drops 
H. (Hora) — An hour 
Haust. — A draught 
Hebdom. — A. week 
Herb (Herba) — An herb 
Heri. — Testerday 
Hirudo.- — A leech 
Hor. (Hora) — An hour 
Hor. decub. — At bedtime 
Hon j spat. — After one hour 
Id. (Idem)— The same 
Iden. — Repeatedly; often 
Infus. — An Infusion 
Injec. — An injection 
In plum.— In gruel 
Iter. — Let it be repeated 
Jam. — Now 
Jentac. — Breakfast 
Juscel, — A. broth 
Juscul. — A soup 



Dr. 



XXX 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS— ENGLISH DEFINITIONS 



Jux (juxta) — Near to, close by 

K (Kali) — rotassa, potassium 

Lac. (lactls)— Milk; of milk 

Lan (Lana)— Flannel; wool 

Lang. — Languor, Faintness 

Larg. (Largus)— Abundant; plenty 

Larid. (Laridum) — Lard 

Lat — Broad; wide; tlie side 

Lat admov. — Let it be applied to side 

Lat! dol. — To the painful side 

Lax. (Laxus) — Loose; open 

Lb., (Libra) — A pound 

Lect. — A bed 

Len. — Easily; gently 

Len. ter. — By rubbing- gently 

Lie. — A ligature 

Linim. — A liniment 

Lint. — Lint, linen 

Litj. — A solution 

Lot. (Lotio) — -A lotion 

M, n — a Minim; about a drop 

M. (Misce)— Mix; mix thou 

M. (manipulus) — A handful 

Mane — Morning; in the Morning 

Manus— The hand 

Mass. (Massa) — A mass 

Matut.— In the morning 

Med, (Medius) — Middle 

Mens. — By measure 

Min. — A minim 

Minut. — A minute 

Mis. — Let it be mixed 

Mis. bene, — Mix well 

Mist. — A mixture 

Mod. diet.— As to be directed 

Modic. — Moderate-sized 

Mol. (Mollis) — Soft 

Mor. sol. — In the usual manner 

Natr. (Natrium) — Sodium 

Nig. — Black 

Nisi. — Unless 

No. — In number 

Noct.— Of the night 

Noct. maneq. — Night and morning 

Non. — Not 

Non. repetat. — Not repeated 
Noxa. — An injury 
Nunc. — Now 
Nux. — A nut 

0. (Octarius)— A pint (gxvj) 16 oz. 
Oct. (Octo) — Eight 

Ocul. (Oculus) — The eye 

01. O. Opt. — Best Olive oil 
Olla. — A pot, a jar 
Omn. hor. — Every hour 
Omn. bih. — Every two hours 

Omn. quadr. hor.— Every quarter hour 

Omn. mane. — Every morning 

Omn. nocte. — Every night 

Op. (Opus) — Need, occasion 

Opt. — Best 

Oryza. — Rice 

Os (Oris) — Osmium, Mouth 
Ov. (Ovum) — Egg 
P. — By weight 
Pallid. — Pale 
Pt. esq. — Equal parts 
Part. vie. — In divided doses 
Parv. — A little 
Pastil. — A pastille, a lozenge 
Paue. — Little, a few 
Paul. — Little by little 



Pect, (Pectus) — -The breast 

Porcol. — Strain through 

Pes. — The foot 

Pess. — A pessary 

Ph. — A vial; a bottle 

Pil. (Filula) — A pill 

Pilus — The hair 

Ping. (Pinguis)— Fat; grease 

Poc. (Poculum) — A cup; a little cup 

Pon. P. — By weight 

Post, cibos. — After meals 

Postrid, — On the next day 

Pot. (Potus)- — A drink 

Pr£e. — Before, Very 

Prand. — Dinner 

Primus — The first 

Pro. — For; before; according to 

Prop. — Special ; particular 

Pro. rat. set. — According to the age of 
the patient 

Prox.— Nearest 

Pug. — A pinch 

Pulm. — Gruel, Pulmentum 

Pulv. — Powder 

Pulv. gros. — A coarse powder 
Pulv. Subtil. — A smooth powder 
Pulv. ten.. — A fine powder 
Pur. (Purus) — Pure, clean 
Purg. — A purgative 

Q. (Quadrans) — A 4th Part, a quart, 

32 oz., 2 pints 
Q. lib., Q. p. — As much as you please 
Qq. (Quisque) — Each or every 
Qq. hor. — Every hour 
q. g. — As much as is sufficient 
Q. v. — As much as you please 
Quad. — Fourfold 
Quam. — As much as 
Quart. (Quartus) — Fourth 
Quat. (Quater) — Four times 
Quinq (Quin que)— Five 
Quor. (Quorum) — Of which 
Quotid. — Daily 
IJ, cRecipc)— Take 
Rec. — Fresh, newly 
Reno v.— Renew, let it be renewed 
Resid. — Residual, remaining 
Rum. Rumen. — The throat 
S V. R.— Alcohol 
g y T. — Rectified Spirits 
Sac. lac — Sugar of Milk 
Sac. sat. — Sugar of lead 
Ssep. — -Frequently 

Salaam" (Amarum)— Magnesium sul 

Sal mi* (mirabile)^odlum Su^|| 
Sal vol. (volatile)— Ammonium oarou 
ate 

Sap . — A flavor, delicacy 

Sat.— Enough, sufficient 

Saturat.— Saturated -rains) 2* 

Scrup., 3 .—A Scruple (20 grams; 

to an ounce t the 

Scut. pect.— For protection to 

breast 

Sed. — The fundament, feces 
Semol. — Once 
Semidr.— Half a dram 
Semih.— Half an hour 
Sensim.— Gently, gradually 
Separ.— Separately 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS— ENGLISH DEFINITIONS sxxi 



Sept. — Seven 
Septim- — A week 
Sesq. — Ono and a half 
Sesqh. — An hour and a- half 
Sesunc. — An ounce and a half 
Sev. (Sevura) — Tallow; suet 
Si— If 

Sic — So, thus 

gic — Dry. Let it be dried 
Sis- (Signa)— Write (Thou) 
Sign. — Clearly, distinctly 
Simul. — Together 
Sin. — "Without 
Sing— Of each 
Sit. — Let it be 
Solut. — A solution 
Som. (Somnus) — Sleep 
Spt. — Spirit 

Spt. vin. rect. — Rectified spt of wine 

ss (Serais) — A half 

St. — Let it stand 

Stat. — Immediately 

Stib. (Stibium) — Antimony 

Stillat. — Drop by drop 

Stom, — By stomach 

Subind. — Frequently 

Sue. — Sap, juice 

Sum. — Let him take 

Suppos. — Suppository 

Syr. — Syrup 

T. d., T. i. d. — Three times a day 
Tab. — A lozenge, tablet 
Teg. — A cover 

Temp. (Tempus) — Time; temple 



Tep. (Tepidue) — Tepid, lukewarm 
Ter. — Throe times, thrice 
Tere, Teret.— Rub, let it be rubbed 
Tert. — Third 

Thion. (Thionaa) — Sulphur 
Tinct., vel Tr. — Tincture 
Tinct. herb, rec— Tincture freah herbs 
Trit. — Triturate 
Troch. — A lozenge, troche 
Tus. (tussis) — A cough 
Tuto. — Safely 

Uln. (Ulna) — The arm, elbow 
TJlt. — At the last 
Ult. prassc. — The last ordered 
Una. — Tog-ether 

Une. 3 (uncia) — An ounce, 8 drama 
TJnct. — Anointed, besmeared 
TJng. — An ointment, unguent 
Urg. — Urgent, pressing 
Ust. — Burnt 
Ut diet. — As directed 
Vas. — A vessel, utensil, bottle 
Vas. vit. — A glass vessel 
Vehic. — Menstruum, a vehicle 
Vel.— Or 

Venen. — A poison 
Vesp. — In the evening 
"Vic. — Change 
Vin. — Wine 

Vir. — Strength, vigor, life 
Virid. — Green 
Vitel. — Yolk 
Vol.— Volatile 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Agar-Agar. A gelatinous material obtained from certain seaweeds found in th 

Pacific Ocean. It dissolves to a jelly-like mass and it is used for baeteriologkr 
work, in jellies, medicines and adhesives. 

Alabaster. — A hydrous sulphate of lime or gypsum, occurring in a very fin 
grained and translucent form. In the purest form it is snow-white but it occu 
also colored due to the presence of metallic oxides. It is found chiefly in Europe 
where on account of its softness it is carved into sculptures and various decorativ 
objects. 

Alcohol. — Commonly ethyl, grain or ethanol. To be distinguished from methy 
wood or methanol which is poisonous and different in chemical structure. 

Alloy. — Chemically a solid solution of two or more metals, although even m ! 
tures of metals are included in the term. An alloy has a melting point called t' 
eutectic, which is lower than that of any of its components. 

Alum. — Commonly potassium alum, which is a combination of potassium an 
aluminum sulphates. It occurrs as the mineral kalinite. It is very astringent and i 
used for purifying water. Soda alum or chrome alum are similar combinatio 
■where the potassium has been replaced by the corresponding metals. 

Alumina. — An oxide of aluminum which occurs in the amorphous or crystaUin 
state as in corundum and bauxite. It is used in porcelain manufacture 

Amber. — A natural fossil resin found in Northern Europe. It is hard brittl 
of a yellow or orange color and at times transparent. When rubbed it becomes ele 
trically charged. It is to be distinguished from synthetic products such as th 
phenolic resins. 

Asbestos, — Amianthus. — -The common name given to a variety of fibrous min 
crals. The word is derived from the Greek meaning incombustible. Asbestos occur 
in different types varying in chemical composition. The most important is a var * e 
found in large quantities in Canada and known as Chrysotile. Asbestos is widel 
used as a heat insulator, for packing and for fireproof garments and fabrics 

Asphalt. — A black or brownish deposit of bituminous character found in yario 
countries. It occurs in the solid and plastic state. Chief among the deposits ar 
the ones in Trinidad and Bermudez. A high quality is found in Utah and _is name 
Gilsonite. Asphalts are also derived from petroleum by distillation. These ar 
termed as oil-asphalts. 

Bakelite.— The trade name (after its inventor) for a resin made from the ri 
action of phenol and formaldehyde. It may be produced in transparent clear v 
colored masses. When powdered and mixed with various filling materials it may u 
molded under beat and pressure to obtain numerous articles. It is strong, Jj a *" 
high polish, is a good electrical insulator and is resistant to water, alcohol, ana acias, 

Balsam of P 



ern.—A viscous, sticky resin obtained from a tree in Central. 

America. It comes deep brown or black in color, and has an aromatic odor. 



used in medicine and perfumery 

Bentonite. — A clay-like mineral consisting of hydrous aluminum silicate. 1 1 is 
of very fine grain size, capable of absorbing large amounts of water ana nut, ■ * j 
high plasticity. It is used in the manufacture of colloidal solutions. It is lounu 
Wyoming. 



xxxiv 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Bmwn . _ -Renzol _The chemical name given to a hydrocarbon derived from 
the SSn of coal tar. Benzene forms the basis of the aromatic compounds and 
Iht nSStap dves It is a good solvent and m admixtures with gasoline forms an 
Automotive motor fuel. To be distinguished from benzine. 

Rpn^ine A volatile fraction from the distillation of petroleum and lighter than 

gasoline It is composed of a mixture of different hydrocarbons. 

Rpnyoin —An aromatic resin derived from a tree in the East Indies. It is 
yeUowfsh brown in color and is used in medicine and as incense. 

Black TreacIe.^A viscid uncrystallizable syrup which drains from the sugar 
refiner's molds. Sometimes called sugar-house molasses. 

Bloodstone— A variety of chalcedony or quartz It occurs as an opaque or 
translucent mineral, bright or dark green in color and interspersed with small red 
spots. 

Bole.— A non plastic clay. The presence of iron oxide gives it a yellowish to 
brown color. 

R rnrl , e _The name given to the alloys composed of copper and tin in which 
these two metals are chemically combined. Zinc as well as other metals are often 
fdded To improve its casting qualities. Bronze is usually cast whole brass is usually 
drawn. 

Rnreimdv Pitch— The name given to a resin obtained from the Norway Spruce 
found Khe Vosges Mountains and in the Alps. It is also obtained from a variety 
S pine found in the United States. It is opaque yellowish brown and of a more or 
less P brittle nature. It looks like rosin, and in composition it » about the same con- 
taining more or less turpentine and emulsified water. 

Cnmohor— A white resin distilled from an evergreen found in China and Japan. 
It is trfnstocent, unctuous to the touch and volatile. It is used in the manufacture 
of celluloid, explosives and disinfectants. 

r* 1 u T*tMa p,,Wv>r The milky mice or latex obtained from incisions 

to water. 

Caramel.-A brown somewhat bitter substance obtained by heating sugar and 
used for coloring confectionery and beverages. 

septic. It is poisonous. 

Casein.-A protein (nitrogenous) substance f ound lr i mill : It * oM**g% 
skimmed milk by precipitation with rennet or acids, n*™™™^/^^ It 
formaldehyde. It is insoluble in water and alcohol but i ; attacked Dy 
is used in making molding materials, imitation ivory, pastes ana gi , 
dressings and sizes. Galalith is made from casein. 

Castile Soap.-A high grade of soap made P^gg ^Tt^o^T ) 
soda. It comes in white and green color depending on the shade 01 

Celluloid.-A synthetic material made by ^ treating "J^gg" J fa 3uble 
It is transparent, elastic and easily molded at about 100 C Celluloid 
in water but soluble in alcohol and other organic solvents. 

Ceresine.— When pure, it Is refined ozokerite (a natural mineral wax). Usua 
adulterated with paraffin wax. ^ 

Chalk.-A soft white or grayish form of calcium carbonate found m 
England and France. It is widely used in ™ P^X, fineness and 

rubber and crayons. It is graded commercially according to color, nn 

purity. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Chlorophyl.— The preen coloring matter of leaves, occurring as microscoTj 
granules distributed throughout the cells. It may be extracted with alcohol and eth 

Cocoa Butter. — A fat extracted from the cocoa-nibs. It is a yellowish white 
solid turning to yellow on ageing. It is used medicinally and in confectionery. It 
resists rancidity very well. 

Coconut Oil. — An oil obtained from the kernels of the coconut palm. It is a 
white solid at ordinary temperatures and is used in the manufacture of "soap and 
candles. 

Colophony. — The rosin remaining after distilling the turpentine from the exuda- 
tion of several varieties of pine tree found in Europe and North America. It is a 
reddish-brown translucent and easily fusible solid. Colophony or rosin as it is 
commonly called is used in varnishes, soluble oils, belt dressings and paint driers. 

Copal. — Fossil resins widely distributed throughout the tropics. Ranges in color 
from white through yellow, red and brown. Copals are soluble in alcohol and drying 
oils and are used for varnishes and enamels. 

Creosote. — The light colored oily liquid obtained by distilling coal tar and con- 
taining ortho, meta and para cresol. Its chief uses are as a wood preservative and 
a disinfectant. 

Dammar. — The resin obtained by tapping several species of trees found in Asia 
and in the East Indies. It varies from light transparent grades to black. Dammar 
is soluble in alcohol and turpentine and is used in high quality varnishes, lacquers and 
in sealing wax. 

Dextrin. — Synonymous with amylin and British gum. Dextrin is the general 
name for a group of compounds similar to starch. It 5s a white non-crystalline 
powder with neither taste nor odor. It is used as an adhesive for envelopes and 
postage stamps and as a filler for cloth. 

Eau de Cologne. — Originally an alcoholic infusion of various plants so named 
from the place of manufacture. It is now prepared by blending essential oils with 
alcohol and still holds a ranking place in perfumery. 

Elaterite. — An amorphous dark brown natural asphaltic bitumen. It ranges 
from a soft elastic to a hard brittle mass. It has a high fusing point and is of com- 
paratively little importance due to its occurrence in rather small amounts. 

Emery. — The name given to the natural occurring mixture of the mineral corun- 
dum, magnetite and others. It is very hard and is used as an abrasive both as a 
powder or as blocks or wheels. 

Ester Gum. — A gum prepared by combining glycerine and rosin with the aid of 
neat. It is less sticky and brittle than ordinary rosin and is largely used in the 
manufacture of spar varnishes. 

Feldspar. — The name given to a group of minerals found in a variety of colors 
and as alumino silicates of alkali metale and alkaline earths. They consist of a 
crystalline construction, quite hard and found in the United States and various parts 
of Northern Europe. 

Formalin. — A solution of 40 per cent concentration of formaldehyde. It has a 
Pungent odor and it is used as a disinfectant, preservative, and in the manufacture 
of synthetic Tesins. 

Fuller's Earth. — A hydrated compound of silica and alumina having a grayish 
brown color and a smooth greasy feel. It is used as a filtering material t°r vege- 
table, animal and mineral oils from which it removes the basic colors. 



Used also as 



a pigment filler. 

. Galbanum. -A gum resin from a plant native of Persia. It varies in badness, 
is more or less translucent, yellowish brown in color and of a bitter taste, usea m 
medicine. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNIN< 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Gas-Tar or Gas-Works Tar.— Coal tar produced as a byproduct in the retorts 
in the manufacture of illuminating gas, 

Gl ue> An adhesive made from gelatine obtained from animal hoofs and hides, 

from fish' heads, or from bones. Some glues are also made from blood or casein. 
The hardening of glue is due to the loss of water. 

Graphite. One of the several varieties of natural occurring carbon. It is found 

in two forms" both of which are good electrical and heat conductors. Graphite is 
used as a lubricant, in making crucibles, electrodes, and in the "lead" in lead pencils. 

Gum Ammoniac. A gum resin derived from an herb in Central Persia having 

an unpleasant odor and a reddish color. Used in medicine. 

Gum Arabic or Acacia.-— The gum obtained by tapping a species of tree found 
in Asia, Africa and the East Indies. It is used in making inks, as an adhesive and 
as a filling material in textiles. 

Gum Thus. Also frankincense. A resin from the Norway Spruce Fir. It is 

used as an incense in ointments and plasters. 

Gutta Percha. A gum obtained by boiling the drippings of several species of 

trees found in New Guinea, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula. When vulcanized it 
forms a very hard material. It is used mostly for insulating electric cables. 

Horn. The protruding growth of the heads of cattle and other animals. Horns 

are hollow and are cut by saws, soaked for long periods and pressed to shape by 
hydraulic presses. The chief use of horn is in making knife handles, buttons and 
the like. 

Hydraulic Cement. — A cement that sets or hardens when used under water. 
Varieties of these are Portland, puzzolan, and hydraulic lime. 

Iceland Moss. — A lichen growing abundantly in the mountainous regions of 
Europe. It has a bitter taste, and is used medicinally. 

Infusorial Earth or Diatomaceous Earth. — A hydrous opalescent form of silica 
the remains of aquatic microorganisms. It is absorbent, light in color and weight. 
Also called fossil flour, rotten stoue and kieselguhr. Used in making dynamite. 

Irish Moss or Carrageen. — A sea-weed growing in the Atlantic sea-coast. It 
is purplish in color and almost transparent. It is used for jellies and cattle food. 

Isinglass. — A very pure form of gelatine obtained from the bladders of fish. It 
is used in making adhesives. Transparent sheets of mica are also called isinglass. 

Jewellers' Rouge, — Colcothar. — A brownish red iron oxide obtained in the 
manufacture of fuming sulphuric acid. So called from its use as a polishing material. 

Kaolin.- — A natural aluminum silicate known commercially as Cornish clay. Its 
principal use is in the manufacture of fine porcelain which is almost pure kaolin. 
The cheaper grades are made with the addition of feldspar. It is a soft white 
powder insoluble in water, dilute acids or alkalies. It should be free from grit. Its 
cost is a few dollars per ton. 

Lanolin.- — -The purified fat of the wool of sheep, containing 25-30 per cent water. 
It is a yellowish white mass and is used as an ointment base. 

Lime. — The oxide of calcium, occurring in nature in combination with carbonic 
acid gas. It is obtained by heating limestone to drive off the carbon dioxide. Lime 
is white and is used for building, as a flux in steel making and as a gas absorbent. 
Also called quicklime. 

Litharge. — The monoxide of lead, yellow in color and made by heating the metal 
in a reverbatory furnace. When ground it is used as &■ pigment, in glass manufacture 
and in the glazing and fluxing of earthenware. 

Lithopone. — A white pigment consisting mostly of barium sulphate with ab? u * 
one third zinc sulphide and a small amount of zinc oxide. It is used in the making 
of paints and inks and as a fdler for rubber and oilcloth. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Logwood. — The product of a leguminous tree native to Central America. It 
used in dying, the preparation of ink and in medicine. 

Lye.— The general name given to solutions of caustic alkalies. 

Malt. — A product made by arresting the germination of grain by the remo 
of water through the application of heat. It is used in brewing. 

Marseilles Soap.— See castile soap. 

Mastic. — A gum-resin exuded from a tree found in the Mediterranean countr 

It is used in varnishes, adhesives and chewing gum. 

Meerahaum. — A soft light colored hydrated magnesium silicate found in Asia 
Minor. It is used in making smoking pipes and holders. 

Oil of Mirbane. — Nitrobenzol used in perfumery as a cheap substitute for oil of 
bitter almonds, also as a solvent and in the manufacture of dyes. It is poisonous. 

Qlein. The glyecride of oleic acid and the fluid constituent of most fats and 

oils, more abundant in vegetable than in animal oils. 

Ox-Gall. When purified a yellowish-green soft solid or powder prepared from 

ox bile. 

Parchment. — A tough durable waterproof paper made by treating cellulose 

paper with sulphuric acid and then rinsing it in water. 

Paris Green. A double compound of copper arsenite and copper acetate used 

as a pigment. Called also Scheele's Green and Schweinfurth Green. Very poisonous. 

pitch. Pyrogenous residue varying from a viscous liquid to a brittle solid of 

dark color and fusible. Obtained chiefly from the destructive distillation of coal, 
bones, wood and various residues. 

Plaster of Paris. — A partially dehydrated calcium sulphate made by heating 
gypsum. It is used for making casts and in plasters and cements. 

Precipitated Chalk. — Pore calcium carbonate prepared by precipitation. Used 
in medicine. 

Pumice.— The porous volcanic glass so formed by very rapid cooling. Whea 
ground it is used as an abrasive and in the preparation of tracing cloth. 

Putty Powder.— Tin oxide in a crude form used in the manufacture of enamels, 
for grinding glass and for polishing. 

Pyroxylin. — A solution of nitrocellulose in ether, ethyl acetate and amy! acet 
It is used in the manufacture of artificial leather, celluloid, rayon, films, molded pa.ru> 
and lacquers. 

Quartz L variety of silica either colorless or colored such as to ?^J"i£ 

amethyst. It is used as an abrasive, in ceramics and for lenses. Pure ™sea q 
stands extreme changes in temperature without breaking. It does not arjsoro uii 
violet light. 

Quassia.— A bitter wood obtained from various trees native of the tropics. Used 

as a medicine. 

Quicklime.— The oxide of calcium manufactured by the calcination « f jj° esta,e ' ' 
On addition of water it slakens forming the hydrate of calcium or siaKea xim. . 

Red Lead.— The oxide of lead, red or orange-red in color. It is ™ ed aS a 
ment and has great covering and protective power. Called also m< 

Roman Cement-The product obtained by burning and grindhigsandsto^Jt 
contains calcium carbonate, silica and alumina. Although not as snon b «=> 
cement it sets much more quickly, 

Rosin.- — See Colophony. 



xxsvm 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Sandarac. Also Austral inn pine-gum or white gum. It is obtained from a tree 

and used in varnishes. 

g oap The material obtained by treating a fat or oil with a solution of caustic. 

Sodium hydroxide yields a hard soap and potassium hydroxide gives a soft soap. 

Spanish Whiting or Chalk.— A variety of soapstone or talc found in Spain. 

Spermaceti. The white crystalline wax obtained from sperm oil. It does not 

yield glycerine when saponified.' At one time it was used in candles, but is now used 
as a high grade wax. 

Stearin. The glyceride of stearic acid occurring mainly in solid fats or tallows. 

Sweet Spirits of Nitre. — An alcoholic solution containing about As per cent ethyl 
nitrite. It is a clear mobile liquid, yellowish in color and of a fragrant odor. Used 
medicinally. 

Talcum. A hydrated magnesium silicate, greasy to the feel and occurring in 

plates or granular form. It varies in color from white to gray, green, brown and 
red. It is used as a fdler in glazing and in cosmetics. , 

Traumaticin. A solution containing about 15 per cent gutta percha in chloro- 
form. Used like collodion. 

Tripoli. A form of silica originating from the decomposition of chert or of 

limestone rich in silica. Often confused with tripolite which is diatomaceous earth. 
True tripoli contains no diatoms. It is used in detergents, for polishing and as a 
paint filler. 

Turpentine. The oil obtained by distillation of the oleo-resin derived from 

various species of pine tree. It is used in paints and varnishes, in the manufacture 
of rubber, perfume and artificial camphor. 

Umber. A paint pigment consisting of a brown siliceous earth, manganese 

oidde and hydrated iron oxides. Burnt umber made by heating umber is much 
redder in color. 

Venetian Red. — Hed iron oxide pigments varying in chemical composition. 
Chieiiy applied to the light red to distinguish it from the dark shades called 
Indian red. 

Venice Turpentine. — An exudation from the laTch, found in Europe and so 
named from the city whence it was shipped. Used in medicine. 

Water-Glass.— A water soluble sodium silicate having a glassy appearance when 
hard. It is used for coating wood and stone, in cements, glazing, as a filler in soap 
and for preserving eggs. 

White Lead. — Basic lead carbonate — A widely used paint pigment. 

White Wax. — A bleached and purified quality of beeswax. 

Wool Grease, Wool Wax or Wool Degras. — .The oily material present in the 
sheep's wool, technically a wax containing no glycerine or glycerides. It is extracted 
from the cut wool with alkali soap solution or with sodium carbonate. 

Wood Tar. — The bituminous product derived from the destructive distillation 
of wood, varying in properties with the source and quality of the wood used. 

Yellow Wax. — Common beeswax, so called from its color. When new it is light 
yellow darkening with age. It is bleached and called white wax. Used for polishes, 
candles and floor waxes. 





NOTE CONCERNING THE INDEXES 



Two very complete ready reference Indexes 
will be found in the back of this book. The 
second or Supplementary Index, refers to items 
in most recent development. In using these In- 
dexes, the Editors suggest that you consult 
every possible heading, as frequently a formula 
may be indexed under a very general classifica- 
tion instead of the particular one you are look- 
ing for. 



xxxlx 



