
FORTUNES 

IN 

FORMULAS 



10,000 TRADE SECRETS, RECIPES 
and PROCESSES for HOME, 
FARM and WORKSHOP 



EASY 

LABORATORY GREAT FORTUNES 
METHODS FOUNDED ON FORMULAS 



SCIENTIFIC AND LATIN 



FROM 

W S0URCES E TERMS IN SIMPLE ENGLISH 



FARM 

problems; 

SOLVED 



Money Making Ideas for COSMETICS, 
SOAPS, PERFUMES, ANTISEPTICS, 
WATE R-PROOFING, PHOTOGRAPHY, 
LACQUER, PAINTS, DYES, CEMENTS, 
PREVENTIVES,FUMI6ANTS, INSECTICIDES. 



AlT HEN TIC, RE LIABLE, PRACTICAL 



Fortunes 

IN 

Formulas 

NO mere advertising slogan is the title 
"FORTUNES IN FORMULAS." 
This bold title was bestowed upon 
this wonderful book only after deliberate 
and sincere consideration. 

Not everyone, perhaps, desires to make 
a fortune; obviously everyone cannot. But 
every owner of this book of magic can profit 
through its use, and some will probably win 
huge rewards, not only from revelations 
gleaned from its pages, but from new dis- 
coveries; or from new applications or uses, 
inspired by its interesting disclosures. 

We are living in an age when a new 
king, Chemistry, is daily increasing its serv- 
ice to mankind. The Chemical Age is in 
its infancy. In its growth the amateur has 
made huge contributions and has reaped 
large rewards. 

Higher education and professional train- 
ing account far only a relatively small part 
of great developments. A practical method 
for the eradication of the billion-dollar 
moth nuisance awaits discovery, and is only 
one of thousands of opportunities upon 
which cowhand or chemist has equal chance 
of rising to fortune and fame. 

"Fortunes In Formulas" is one of those 
rare "finds" upon which no one can lose 
anything, and from which one may gain 
everything. 

BOOKS, INC. 

BOSTON NEW YORK 




FORTUNES 



IN 



FORMULAS 



FOR 



HOME, FARM, and WORKSHOP 



The Modern Authority for Amateur and 
Professional 

Containing Up-to-date Selected Scientific Formulas, 
Trade Secrets, Processes, and Money-Saving Ideas 

Edited by 
Gardner D. Hiscox, M.E. 

AND 

Prof. T. O'Connor Sloane, A.B., A.M., 
Em., Ph.D. 



L 



includes 

A Guide to How and Where to Procure Ingredients 
Illustrated Workshop and Laboratory Methods 
Latin Names Translated Into English 
A Glossary of Common Names of Chemical buD 

stances 



BOOKS, 
NEW YORK 



INC. 

BOSTON 



Copyright, 1937, 1934, ^niey^uwLto'g 'company 3 ' 



COPYRIGHT, 1939) BY 

BOOKS, INC. 
All rights reserved 



Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England 



■PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 



GUARANTEE AND WARRANTY DISCLAIMER. 

This Fortunes in Formulas Historical Book information is to be owned by 
Adults ONLY! There are no Guarantees or Warranties Implied or Expressed 
as to the fitness or lack of fitness for any purpose whatsoever are being made 
by providing this Fortunes in Formulas Historical Book Information to You. 

This PDF Compilation of Fortune in Formulas 
is Copyrighted in 2010 by Wayne J. Behrle. 

This 1939 book is a Public Document and only the PDF Compilation is 
Copyrighted, But You may freely duplicate , and distribute : 
This ENTIRE Fortune in Formulas Compilation , ONLY as long 
as This complete page is included. 

For those of you who would like to send a small donation to me for 
making this PDF work available, it would be gratefully accepted. 

Wayne J. Behrle 
6050 Peachtree Parkway 
Suite 240-112 
Norcross, Georgia 30092 USA 
Due the age and condition of this nearly 900 page book it could not be reliably 
scanned, so photographs of each page are supplied in PDF format. 
Note: This Compilation is 658 MB in PDF and contained in Windows Zipped format. 

To use the CD-R disk or Download: 
Place the CD-R disk in the drive and it should open to the Folder: 
Fortunes_ln_Formulas-PDF, Just double-click on this Folder. 

For disk: If it does not automatically open: Go to the computer and double-click on the 
Drive Number like D:, E:, etc that the disk is in, then double-click the folder. 

Or for a Download: double-click to open the zipped , downloaded Folder: 
Fortunes_ln_Formulas-PDF. 
A list of the PDF pages should appear. 

This is best viewed with the Window's tool bar View set to the Details setting 

(Note: on some computers Adobe will take a while to first come up). 

A good starting place is to double-click: PAGE_001-004 GUIDE.pdf. 

This 40+ page section provides a wealth of information and an introduction to this 
nearly 900 page fascinating book. 

Note: By using the PAGE_005_008 INDEX.pdf, you can find your general area of 

interest in the book, and a second copy of this index is at the end of the book. 

Then double-click on the PDF file for the page you want, for example: Click on 
PAGE_158-182 CE-Cl.pdf which would open pages 158 to 182. 

Also the top of most pages provides a alphabetical index and so as an example 
PAGE_133-157 BR-CE.pdf would open to the pages from alphabetical BR to CE. 

ENJOY! W.J.B. 



CONTENTS 



10,000 Formulas for Home, Farm, and Workshop , 

Workshop and Laboratory Methods 

Preface ^ 

How and Where To Procure Ingredients and Equipment . X v 

Measuring Made Easy xv ii 

Buyers' Guide X]) 

Common Names of Chemical Substances xxiii 

Latin Names of Drugs and Chemicals Translated into English xxv 

Latin Abbreviations with English Definitions xxix 

Useful Information Concerning Materials xxxiii 

Note Concerning the Indexes xxxix 

10,000 Formulas 9-857 

Index 859 

Supplementary Index 881 



THE employment of many products of modern Chemistry and Scien 
has rapidly become necessary in the successful operation of the hom 
the farm, and industry. Until the present time the average person has 
been given little opportunity to become familiar with the hidden simplicity of 
chemical and scientific compounds and processes, because in most chemical 
mixtures all evidence of processing is concealed in the finished product. And 
with the employment of Latin and trademarked brand names for common 
concoctions or mixtures, the mysteries of chemical compounds have been ef- 
fectively preserved. 

So-called formulas and trade-named products often impose upon the con- 
suming public a cost from 2 to roo times greater than need be, once simple 
understanding is reached. In numerous such cases a simple mixture of two 
or more common ingredients, purchasable at prices representing a mere frac- 
tion of the price of the "named" article, may provide for the user money sav- 
ing, convenience, and independence. It is to those who may wish to become 
thus enterprising that Fortunes In Formulas is devoted and dedicated. For 
herein will be found the simple key to the mystery-chambers which have here- 
tofore concealed in darkness thousands of recipes and processes which through 
the labors of the editors are now made available. 

In order to assist users who are not in close touch with commercial centers, 
a classified Buyers' Guide has been placed in the front of the book for handy 
reference. Here will be found the names and addresses of dealers who handle 
the various articles needed in compounding most of the formulas contained 
in this book. 

Two special features will be appreciated by readers who have not had the 
benefit of technical training — a Glossary of Chemical Terms and their cor- 
responding common names, and several pages of useful information concern- 
ing the Materials Required in Compounding Formulas. 

In the chapter on Laboratory Methods, which contains many illustrations, 
will be found an outline of practically every operation necessary to the proper 
compounding of any formula in the book. 

The Editors have endeavored to meet the practical requirements of the 
home and workshop— the mechanic, the manufacturer, the artisan, the house- 
wife, and the general home worker. 

Special attention has been given to the newer methods which have recently 
revolutionized the cosmetic and perfume industry and to this end many ultra- 
modern formulas have been included on all kinds of beauty preparations. 

The electroplating trades have been brought to public notice recently by 
the introduction of chromium plating ; therefore, an excellent method has been 
explained in detail under that heading. 

■ Many of the formulas representing recent revolutionary progress in the 

vii 



viii 

a ™lkhes will be found useful and profits 
field of paints, lacquers, varmshes and polishes w 

ble. n j trade secr ets which have proved their value by 

Old formulas and so-caiiea i ^ noteworthy advance has been 

long use are also included, particularly w 

made. . . , utro ost care in selecting the material from 

In addition to exercising « modified formu las which were obviously 
competent sources, the Renters " va i ua ble when altered. Processes of 

ill-adapted to their needs but dec i ^ ^ ^ has been ^ 

^XSS sources otherwise 

inaccessible to most English-reading people. ^ 

The very lates. ^discover*: ^"^^ section offers to the professional 
of a well-known R« a f t ^her valuable information on lenses, high speed 

camera, etc., etc. Xhe Editors. 



January, IQ39- 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY 
METHODS 



__ot necessary for one to be a chemist in order to compound any 
recipes given in this book, but at the same time, the greater the number of effici" 
methods and time-saving devices with which the worker is familiar, the easier it w 
be to obtain good results with the least effort. 

It is a well known fact in every trade, that if two men are given the s~ 
formula to work out, one may produce a satisfactory product while the other m 
fail. The reasons for this are that one man knows from experience how to p 
certain ingredients together and exercises more patience and more common ue- 
than the other. 

It very often happens that a small oversight or a lack of attention to det 
may be the cause of the failure to get good results; for instance, if a recipe st 
that a certain product must be dried before another ingredient is added, it is ne~ 
sary to be sure that the drying is complete; a little patience exercised at this t" 
may be the deciding point between a good product and a poor one. 

It never pays to hurry or to do slipshod work in the laboratory, especi 
when a new formula is being worked out or a new method is being tried. 

This chapter will be devoted to the consideration of the various proced 
followed by the chemist when compounding recipes and also to the mechanical 
which lie employs as time savers. The several procedures will be taken up. 
discussed in the following order: 



Ccntrifugation 

Clarification 

Crystallization 

Decantation 

Dialysis 



Distillation 

Evaporation 

Emulsification 

Fermentation 

Filtration 



Grinding 

Precipitation 

Solution 

Specific Gravity 
Weighing 



Centrifugation 

A piece of apparatus which has in 
recent years become one of the tech- 
nician's most valuable time savers, is 
the centrifuge. It is used to separate 
such substances as, cream from milk, 
liquids of different specific gravity from 
each other, and solids from liquids when 
they are held in suspension in such a 
way that they cannot be filtered. If a 
substance is so gelatinous that it will not 
settle from its solution for days, or if it 
is so finely divided that it will pass 




Pis- 1 

through the pores of a filter paper, it 
may be quickly and completely sepa- 
rated with the aid of the centrifuge in 
a few minutes. 



The material is poured into the tub 
of the machine, care being taken that 
tubes placed, opposite each other will 
weigh the same; the whirling action 
quickly forces the heavier particles to 
the bottom of the tube and the lighter 
substance to the top, the two portions 
may then be very easily separated by 
pouring one from the other. 

Centrifuges are made in various sizes 
from the small hand type, costing about 




FJr. a 

$20.00 up to very large sizes costing 
several hundreds of dollars and operated 
by electricity or steam. Four types oT 
centrifuges are illustrated; Fig. 1 is op- 
erated by hand, Fig. 2 by water and Fig. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP ANU — 



8 by electricity. _ The type with the per- 
forated holder is use d to dry gr^p 
tates by expressing the moisture tnro b 




Fig. 3 




the strainer. Fig. 4. A good centri- 
fuge may attain a speed of 4,000 revo- 
lutions per minute. 

Clarification 

When a substance is prepared for the 
market it is a matter of pride to a good 
•workman to make his product as pleas- 
ing to the eye as possible. If the article 
in question is a liquid he will try to 
have it crystal clear. It may be out of 
the question to centrifuge such a sub- 
stance and for this reason some other 
means must be found for removing any 
cloudiness. There are several ways in 
which this may be accomplished depend- 
ing upon the composition of the article. 

Finely divided particles which fail to 
settle out, may sometimes he made to 
adhere to a coarser substance which 
settles quickly and the two may then be 
removed together. In each instance 
something should be chosen which is in- 
soluble in and is not effected by any 
of the chemicals used in the original 
preparation. Paper pulp may serve the 
purpose. If this fails charcoal, or pure 
talc may be employed. Liquids which 
will stand boiling may be cleared by 
adding the whites of several eggs, thor- 
oughly mixing them top-ether and then 
heating the mixture to 80°C. or higher 
The coagulation of the albumen of the 



ecirs will gather all of the suspended 
ctrticlcs together and when the liquid 
is filtered it will be found to be per- 
fectly clear. 

Crystallization 

This process is employed when It is 
desired to purify certain chemicals. The 
ordinary chemicals of commerce often 
contain impurities which must be re- 
moved before the chemicals are fit to be 
used. The principles of crystallization 
are as follows: When certain sub- 
stances are dissolved in water until the 
water cannot take up any more, the re- 
sulting solution is known as a saturated 
solution. This solution is filtered to re- 
move insoluble impurities and if the 
water is allowed to evaporate, the dis- 
solved substance will be left behind, con- 
siderably improved in quality. Under 
these circumstances a great many sub- 
stances assume regular and symmetrical 
forms known as crystals. If several 
substances are present at the same time, 
they separate in proportion to their con' 
centration and in proportion to their 
solubility. 

If the soluble impurities are present 
in relatively small amounts, it is 
possible to crystallize out the principal 
substance to a very large degree before 
the impurity begins to separate, if the 
remaining solution is then discarded the 
crystals will be quite pure. If these 
are redissolved and again crystallized in 
the same manner, they can be regained 
almost chemically pure. 

The slower the process of evaporation 
the larger the crystals will be. Stirring 
produces small crystals. Some chemical 
salts form beautifully colored crystals 
and with care some may be made to 
grow to a considerable size. Copper 
sulphate lends itself to crystallization 
very readily and if a solution of this 
salt is made and set aside undisturbed 
for slow evaporation, it is possible to 
select a perfect crystal from among the 
small ones which first separate and to 
discard the others. If this perfect 
crystal is returned to the solution and 
the evaporation continued, the crystal 
may be allowed to grow to almost un- 
limited size. If the crystal is dried and 
coated with shellac to prevent loss of 
moisture, it may be kept as an inter- 
esting ornament. By selecting certain 
chemical salts of different colors, such 
as potassium bichromate, potassium fer- 
rocyanide, etc., an instructive exhibit of 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 



LABORATORY METHODS 



the various forms of crystals may be 
prepared. 

Decantation 

Precipitates which settle rapidly and 
which are insoluble in water may be 
washed and purified by decantation. 
This is a time saving operation as com- 
pared with washing by filtration. A 
large volume of water is added to the 
precipitate in a decantation flask which 
is then shaken vigorously and the pre- 
cipitate allowed to settle. When this 
has occurred the water may be poured 
off, carrying with it any foreign matter 
which may be present. This process 
may be repeated until the washed pre- 
cipitate remains in a state of relative 
purity. Flasks of the type illustrated 
below, called decantation flasks, are es- 
pecially adapted to this purpose. 

A decantation flask is shewn in Fig. 5. 




Pig. 5 

Dialysis 

Dialysis is a process which permits 
the separation of a crystalline substance 
from a colloidal or gelatinous one when 
both are present in the same solution. 
Crystalline substances readily pass 
through various animal and vegetable 
membranes while colloids do not, there- 
fore if a mixture consisting of two sub- 
stances of this nature are placed in a 
sac made of an animal membrane or a 
vegetable one such as collodion and the 





Fig. B 

sac immersed in running water the 
crystalline salts will pass through the 
tnemhrane and leave the gelatinous sub- 
stance behind. Figs. 6 and 7. 



Distillation 

Distillation is used for the purposi 
purifying water and other liquids „ 
also for the separation of liquids of 
different boiling points from each other 
The theory of distillation is as follows- 
If a solution is boiled it is changed to 
a vapor, if this vapor is then cooled in 
a separate vessel it returns to its 
original state and any solid substance 
which was present remains in the vessel 
which was heated. If two liquids of 
different boiling points such as alcohol 
and water are mixed together and the 
mixture heated, it will be found that 
the boiling point of the mixture lies 
somewhere between the boiling point of 
water and the boiling point of alcohol,. 
Pure water boils at about 100° C. which 
is equal to 212°F. Pure grain alcohol, 
or as it is chemically known, ethyl 
alcohol, boils at about 78°C. 

If a mixture of equal parts of water 
and alcohol is boiled the boiling point 
will be about midway between 78° C. and 
lOCC. and the vapor when condensed 
will contain a larger proportion of aleo>- 
hol than the original mixture because 
of the fact that the alcohol present will 
vaporize at this temperature to a greater 
extent than the water. As the distil- 
lation proceeds the boiling point of the 
mixture will rise because more alcohol 
than water comes over and the relative 
proportion of water left behind is con- 
stantly increasing, finally, when most of 
the alcohol is distilled off the remainder 
will boil at very nearly the temperature 
of pure water. The temperature at 
which any such mixture boils is a fair 
indication of its alcohol content. The 
nearer 78° C. at which such a mixture 
boils the greater is the amount of 
alcohol it contains. , 

It is neither practical nor economical 
to trv to separate all of the alcohol from 
water bv distillation. There comes a 
time in any mixture when the condensed 
vapors contain more water than alcohol 
and it is useless from the standpoint of 
time to continue the distillation. Most 
of the alcohol is recovered from any 
mixture when one-half the total volume 
has been distilled. The first runnings 
contain the greatest proportion of 
alcohol and the last running the east 
The average strength of any distdlgg 
depends upon the length of time the still 
is allowed to operate. If the product 
obtained from first distillation is re- 
turned to the still aud the process re- 
peated the second distillate will cont" 




USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY 



a still higher percentage of alcohol than 
the first. 

It is not possible to prepare absolute^ 
pure alcohol by distillation alone 5 Abso- 
lute alcohol is obtained by adding to 
35% alcohol some chemical which has a 
oreat affinity for water and then dis- 
gftag Te alcohol with this substance 
present. Some of the substances used 
are anhydrous copper sulphate, quick 
lime, etc. Inasmuch as alcohol absorbs 
water from the atmosphere, it is very 
difficult to prepare or even to keep ao- 
solute alcohol; the highest percentage of 
alcohol which it is practical to obtain is 
about 98%. 

The essential parts of a distilling ap- 
paratus or as it is commonly called, a 
still, consist of a vessel in which the 
mixture is to be heated, a tube for con- 
ducting the vapors and a receptacle tor 
cooling and collecting the distillate. 
The number of different styles of dis- 
tilling apparatus run into the hundreds, 
but all are adaptations of the above es- 
sential parts. Stills arc made in dif- 
ferent styles to suit the various pur- 
poses to which they are to be put. 
Great care must be exercised to prevent 
the collection of a sediment on the bot- 
tom of the heating chamber. If such a 
settlement or coating becomes heavy 
enough the still is apt to become over- 
heated and it may explode. The con- 
densing coil must likewise be closely 
watched because obstruction to the free 
passage of the vapors will quickly 
cause a back pressure and the Still will 
burst, scattering boiling water or alcohol 
over a wide area, causing serious 
damage. 



Fig. 8 

Condensers are made in various forms 
according to the kind of product de- 
sired. If it is desired to get a yield 
which contains a high percentage of 
alcohol at one distillation, a condenser 
is used which will act so as to break 



up the vapors as they ascend and allow 
the heavier to fall back into the still 
and the lighter to pass on. A condenser 
of this kind is made of glass and is con- 
stricted at intervals; each constriction is 
provided with a glass bead which partly 
closes the opening. The rising vapors 




Fig. 9 

condense at the first constriction and 
form a pool surrounding the glass bead 
which when it is forced up by the pres- 
sure from below allows any vapor of a 
lower boiling point to pass upward and 
some of the condensed liquid to return 
to the flask. This is repeated at each 
constriction and the vapors which finally 
reach the cooling coil contain very little 
water, 

All parts of a still should be made of 




Fie. 10 



copper or glass and if of copper it 
should be well tinned. For efficient ac- 
tion and a pure product the still should 
be thoroughly cleaned each time it is 
used. If rubber connections are em- 
ployed in any kind of still great care 
must be exercised to prevent any of the 
vapors from coming in actual * contact 
with the rubber and to this end all 
tubes should pass completely through 
the, rubber and well beyond it. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



Heat may be applied from any source, 
but care should be taken not to allow 
the distillation to proceed too rapidly. 
If so much heat is applied that the 
boiling is too vigorous the product is 
apt to be less pure than if it is obtained 
slowly. Mixtures which boil between 
78°C. and 100°C. will produce a much 
purer product if the still is heated by 



Fig. 11 

steam or by being placed in boiling 
water instea'd of over an open flame. 
There is less chance of an accident if 
this method is followed. Four types of 
distilling apparatus are illustrated in 
Figs. 8 to 11. 

Dry Distillation 

Besides the distillation process de- 
scribed above there are other types of 
distillation. Dry or destructive is un- 
derstood to mean the heating of a sub- 
stance to a point where it is chemically 
broken up. Volatile decomposition pro- 
ducts are thus driven off and may be 
condensed. The manufacture of illumi- 
nating gas and the destructive distilla- 
tion of wood are examples of this 
process, The latter example is inter- 
esting because it is by this method that 
acetic acid, methyl or wood alcohol and 
acetone are made. Dry distillation is 
carried out by placing the wood or coal 
in closed ovens from which the air is 
excluded in order to prevent the wood 
from taking fire. The gases which arise 
from the heated wood are condensed and 
the acid contained therein is neutralized 
by adding lime which converts it into 
calcium acetate. The alcohol is redis- 
tilled to the required purity. 

Distillation in Steam 

Substances which are not readily 
^aporiaed or which are injured by a 
high temperature may be distilled in a 
current of steam. The process is to pass 



a current of steam through the mixta 
to be disblled which is also heated in- 
dependently. The steam carries with it 
some of the required substance and thev 
are both condensed together, the water 
being removed later by chemical means. 

Fractional Distillation j 

Fractional distillation is the term ap- 
plied to the process of redistilling each 
fraction of a distillate, in order to sep- 
arate several substances of different, 
boiling points which may be present in 
the same mixture. The distillate from 
such a mixture is collected in several 
receptacles, the receptacles being 
changed at definite boiling points. These 
fractions are each redistilled separately, 
when it will be found that their products 
will have distinct boiling points and Trill 
consist of the several substances which 
were mixed together in the original 
sample. 

Sublimation 

Solids may be distilled as well 
liquids, but the process in this case is 
called sublimation. Many substances, of 
which iodine is a good example, vaporize 
and later condense on any cool surface 
as a solid. In this way nonvolatile im- 
purities may be separated. This process 
is used to prepare corrosive sublimate 
and to purify benzoic acid. 

Evaporation 

When it is necessary to remove 
water or other liquid in which a Si 
is dissolved evaporation is resorted 
There are several ways in which t 
may be carried out, quickly and _ eco- 
nomically. The simplest process is to 
expose the solution to the actum ofair 
and sunlight as is done in the recov- 
ery of salt from sea water. 

If the mixture can be heated without 
harm it is heated in an evaporating d^h 
until the liquid has evaporated In the 
event that the material woidd be 
stroyed by heat it may be e ™P^* te ° v ^ 
allowing a current of a.r to pass over 
the surface or by plaong it u , a .con 
tinuous partial vacuum. A <l E «ccat 
for evaporating small amounts of liqu 
unto reduced pressure is shown 

Fi tegardless of the *«P"*' U1 * 
evaporation, the essential thing is 



this 



provide as large a surface as ; P<*f £ 
because the rate of «vaporabaa*^ 
proportion to the area of ^ the 
surface Various tj-pes of machines 
ha/e been introduced which expose to 
^ e air a much larger surface than 
would be possible otherwise. The prin 
dyk of the most efficient type is that of 




Fig- 12 

- revolving drum which dips into the 
solution to be evaporated. As the drum 
revolves nine-tenths of its surface is con- 
tinually undergoing evaporation. The 
application of heat to the drum hastens 
this process. When the crystals begin 




Fig. 13 

to separate they are removed from the 
drum by a scraper and fall into a pan 
for complete drying. 

A steady even heat is desirable for 




Fig. 14 

evaporation and for this purpose the 
dish may be placed over boiling water, 
over heated sand or over boiling oil if 
the nature of the material permits this 
degree of heat. In fact the temperature 
of evaporation may be kept at anv de- 



sired degree without any attention from 
the operator if a suitable substance is 
chosen over which to heat it. 

Several pieces of apparatus used in 
evaporating liquids are shown in Figures 
13, 14, 16. 




Fig. 15 



Emulsification 

This process is resorted to when it is 
desired to suspend a substance such as 
an oil, in a liquid with which it will not 
ordinarily mix. Emulsification is prin- 
cipally used to improve the taste or ap- 
pearance of medicinal preparations. Milk 
is an example of a perfect emulsion. 
The methods in use all consist in adding 
a gummy substance which is intimately 
mixed with the oil or fat which is to be 
emulsified. 60% of gum acacia or other 
similar substance is rubbed up in a dry 




Fig. 16 

vessel with the oil until it forms a thick 
cream. The water is then added slowly 
with continued stirring until the re- 
quired consistency is reached. Some oils 
cannot be permanently emulsified with- 
out changing their chemical constitution 
which is not permissible if they are to 
be used as medicines or foods. For an 
emulsion which is to be used within a 
short tune it is customary to employ 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



gelatine as the supporting medium, but 
if this is made so that it will flow read- 
ily it will not retain its properties as an 
emulsion for any great length of time. 
An apparatus used to hasten the process 
is illustrated. Fig. 16. 

Fermentation 

Fermentation is a process whereby- 
organic substances are changed by the 
action of living organisms into simpler 
chemical compounds. Almost any ani- 
mal or vegetable substance may be fer- 
mented and the end products depend 
upon the nature of the original sub- 
stance and upon the kind of organism 
causing the fermentation. Animal mat- 
ter, when it decomposes, or ferments, 
which is the same thing, produces such 
substances as ammonia, ammonium salts, 
nitrates, phosphates, etc. Milk when 
fermented produces principally lactic 
acid, due to the action of several kinds 
of bacteria. 

All kinds of fruits when fermented 
by yeast produce alcohol because of the 
presence of sugar. The alcohol produced 
is flavored by the particular volatile oils 
which may be present in the kind of 
fruit used. When fruit is allowed to 
ferment spontaneously the fermentation 
is caused by the various kinds of yeast 
which always adhere to fruit and to the 
yeast which is always present in the 
dust of the air. This kind of yeast is 
known as wild yeast to distinguish it 
from yeast which has been carefully 
selected and grown artificially. This 
cultured yeast produces a more constant 
and high grade alcohol than is produced 
by spontaneous fermentation. The most 
favorable temperature for alcoholic fer- 
mentation is about 24 °C. which is equiv- 
alent to about 75 °F. 

Fermentation usually takes place in 
two stages, the initial stage or main fer- 
mentation is turbulent in character be- 
ing accompanied by the formation of a 
froth on the surface; this is because the 
formation of alcohol separates insoluble 
pectinous substances which rise to the 
surface as foam. After the major por- 
tion of the carbon dioxide has been 
evolved the fermentation becomes quiet- 
er, the second fermentation then begins, 
during which the remainder of the 
sugar is turned into alcohol. Fermenta- 
tion reaches its natural limit when 
about 12% of alcohol has been formed, 
aeeause alcohol of this concentration 
Poisons the yeast and prevents it from 



Generally speaking, two parts of 
sugar when fermented will pr&uee one 
part pure alcohol and therefore, UnowW 
the sugar content of the mash the tlieo! 
ret.cal yield of alcohol may be estimated 
According to Pasteur 100 parts of cane 
sugar yield on an average 48% alcohol, 
46% carbon dioxide, 3% glycerine, .6% 
succinic acid and 1% fusel oil 

Disturbances of fermentation may be 
occasioned by unsatisfactory tempera- 
tures, by the presence of an excess of 
sugar, occurrence of acetous fermenta- 
tion and by unsatisfactory yeast. 

Acetous fermentation, it is well 
known, is very prone to accompany al- 
cohol fermentation. It is caused by 
acetic acid bacteria which are almost 
always present, but which require oxy- 
gen for their development. The forma- 
tion of acetic acid can take place only 
with free access of air, hence when pre- 
serving fermented liquids the access of 
air must be prevented as much as 
possible. 

Filtration 

Filtration is the means employed when 
it is necessary to separate a liquid from 
solid matter which is suspended in it 
If the particles are coarse the filtration 
may be accomplished by pouring the 
liquid through a cloth of any desired 
thickness. If the particles are very 
small, the filter must be correspondingly 
fine in order to keep them from passing 
through with the liquid. The niter most 
often used in the laboratory is made of 
paper, known as filter paper and comes 
in various degrees of fineness to suit the 
quality of the various precipitates, lhe 
finer "the paper the slower the liquid 
passes through and the clearer the fil- 
trate will be. As filtration P»«r«MS 
the pores in the filter paper become 
clogged up by the precipitate and filtra- 
tion then becomes slower. It is otten 
necessary under these ^ circumstances to 
adopt some means of hastening the £0- 
cess; this is accomplished m various 
ways; the simplest is, to use , a funnel 
with a very long stem so that the w«gt 
of descending Squid will have a tend 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND L 



j,cv to puU the liquid on the filter pa- 
ir 7 through at a more rapid rate, 
nother method is shown in the accom- 
anvina illustration which shows the 
tern of the funnel pacing through the 
ork of a wide mouth bottle This cork 
■so carries a second tube which is con- 
ccted to an exhaust pump of some 
ind which keeps the air in the bottle 
t reduced pressure and therefore has a 
endency to draw the liquid through the 
aper. Figs. 17, 18. 





Fig. IT FiS- 18 

For filtering a small amount of liquid 
quickly, it is sometimes sufficient to place 
a small piece of absorbent cotton in the 
neck of the funnel and a very short 
distance down the stem. Fig. 19. 




Fig. 19 



Fig. 20 



For exceedingly fine particles, such as 
bacteria and some kinds of coloring 
matter, it is necessary to use a filter 
which is much finer than any kind of 
paper which can be produced. Among 
such substances are clay, sand and char- 
coal. The clay filter" is known as a 
Betkfeld filter and is always used with 
a suction apparatus. Fig. 20. 

The filter paper used comes in various 
grades, the best paper being pure white 
and the cheaper grades gray or brown 
For very careful work, only the best 
grade of white paper should be used be- 



cause the colored papers usually con- 
tain soluble matter which passes through 
with the liquid and sometimes spoils the 
product. Funnels which are used for 
filtering should be made so that the 
sides taper at an angle of 60 for the 
reason that when the paper is folded in 
the customary manner it will only fit a 
funnel of this shape. 

Methods of folding filter paper. Fil- 
ter paper as usually sold is cut in cir- 
cles of various diameters to fit various 
sized funnels. For use they are folded 
exactlv in half into a semi-circle and 
then folded over once more into a quar- 
ter circle. The paper is then carefully 
opened in the shape of a funnel by hav- 
ine; three of the layers on one side and 
one on the other. When placing it in 
the funnel care should be taken to press 
the paper as far down in the funnel as 
it will go. If this is not done the weight 
of the liquid is apt to tear the paper. 
It is sometimes convenient to moisten 
the paper slightly in order to cause it to 
adhere to the sides of the funnel. Fig. 
21. For more rapid filtration the pa- 




Fig. 21 

per may be folded so as to form what is 
known as the plated filter. With a lit- 
tle practise, plated filters may be folded 
almost as quickly as plain filters. The 
accompanying diagrams will show how 
this is done. 




Fig. 22 

The paper is first folded in a semi- 
circle and quarter circle as in making a 
plain filter, It is then opened out again 
to a semi-circle as shown in Figure 22. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



One side is then folded as shown in 
figure 23 and again folded on itself 



Fig. 23 

as shown in Figure 24. The other side 
is then folded twice in the same man- 
ner. The paper is again opened to a 



Fig. 24 

semi-circle and will be found to have 
seven creases. The end segment is then 
folded half way back on itself and with 
this last small fold as a guide, it is 
creased sixteen times, each time turning 
the paper over so as to crease it on op- 
posite sides exactly as a fan is made. 
It will then appear as Figure 26 and 
when opened up it will be found di- 
vided into thirty-two segments. "When 
placed in a funnel the paper will 
not fit closely to the glass and the 
filtered liquid will have free passage. 
Fig. 26. 



Fig. 25 Fig. 26 

When plating a filter do not crease 
the paper to the point because by so 
lining the paper will be weakened and 



■11 i»»yci will ue w.caiiciicu auu 

w >u break under the weight of the 
liquid. Filter paper is sold already 
tolded under the name of "Folded 
filter." 

Ill order to protect this point which is 
weakest in a filter, it is sometimes neees- 
to make a miniature filter which 
nts over the point and thus protects it. 



Another method of folding « 
paper which strengthens the" weal Sir 

usual XT T KP*P« ta SdJT. 
usual into a semi-circle, next th» „-j 
AB is folded over alon^hTh^S 
CD. The paper is now turned over 



Pig. 27 Fig. 28 

AE is folded along the line EF. Wl 
this paper is opened up the point 
be protected by the presence of a dout 
thickness of paper. Figs. 27, 28. 

Several types of funnels have be 
devised to hasten filtration. In some 



Fig. 29 

these the inside of the glass is ribb 
like a washboard to prevent the pap 
from coming in contact with the sic 
of the funnel at all points. Fig. 29. 

For filtering liquids which must 
kept warm during the process, holde 
have been made with double walls at 



Of 

Fig. 81 

which may be kept * a 

burner as shown in Figs. 30-ai. 



Fig. 80 
mav he 



-USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHOD! 



Filtration under pressure may be re- 
sorted to when it is necessary to hasten 
Z process. This may be accomplished 
by attaching a long piece of rubber tub- 
tag to the stem of a funnel and covering 
ml other large end of the funnel with 
filter paper which is placed between two 
pieces of strong cloth which are tied se- 
curely to the outside of the funnel as 
shown in the illustration. If the funnel 
f s n ow suspended over a large vesse 
and the liquid to be filtered poured 
through the tubing with the aid ot a 
second funnel at the higher end, the 
pressure exerted by the long column of 
water will force the liquid through the 
filter paper much more rapidly than 
would otherwise be the case. Fig. 83. 



Fig. 32 

Grinding and Pulverizing 

Reducing any substance to a state of 
fineness may be a difficult operation or 
an easy one, depending on the material 
at hand. If the substance is extremely 
hard, recourse must be had to a me- 
chanical grinding mill of some kind. 
Numerous styles of these mills are on 
the market suitable for various pur- 
poses, from rock crushing to the simple 
pulverization of softer crystals. Fig. 33. 



stant agitation of the mass and the ac 
tion of the pebbles quickiy reducing the 
substance to a more or less finely pul- 
verized state. The powder may then be 
recovered by sifting it from the pebbles. 
Figs. 34,35. The customary way of 



Fig. ss 

In some types of pulverizing machines 
the substance is brought in contact with 
pebbles in a revolving drum, the con- 



Fig. 34 



Fig. 35 

grinding small amounts of substances in 
the laboratory is w ith the aid of a mor- 
tar and pestle. These mortars are sold 
in glass, porcelain, agate and metal. The 
substance to be pulverized is added to 
the mortar in small quantities at a time 
and rubbed with the pestle by a circu- 
lar motion and more or less pressure. 
Fig. 36. Gummy and sticky substances 



Fig. 3B 

which are not easily pulverized may be 
ground satisfactorily in the presence of 
sand, provided that the substance is one 
which may be separated from the sand 
bv some such means as taking advantage 
of its solubility or of a different specific 
gravity. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 



After the material has been reduced 
a powder it may be separated into 
rtions of different degrees of fineness 
P° jjjgans of wire screens which are 
ade so as to allow powders of any 
jJLsired fineness to pass through. These 
0 s are numbered according to the 
number of openings to the square inch. 
Fig- 37. 




Fig- 37 

Precipitation 

The process of precipitation is re- 
sorted to by the chemist more often 
than by the artisan and is used to sep- 
arate certain elements which may be in 
solution, by adding some other chemical 
which combines with the element it is 
desired to separate, forming an insoluble 
compound which is immediately pre- 
cipitated. For instance, if it is desired 
to separate the element silver from a 
solution in which it is held as a soluble 
salt, such as silver nitrate, it is only 
necessary to add common' table salt. 
This will combine with the silver to form 
silver chloride which will immediately 
separate as an insoluble precipitate. 
This precipitate may then be separated 
by nitration and the silver recovered. 
Any soluble salt of iron may be changed 
to an insoluble one by the addition of 
ammonia, while copper may be made to 
act likewise by adding a soluble sul- 
phide. Any substance used to pre- 
cipitate another is called a precipitant 
and the remaining solution is known as 
the supernatant fluid. 

Solution 

When any substance is dissolved in a 
solvent, it is said to be soluble and the 
resulting product is called a solution. 
When the solvent is alcohol, the product 
18 called an alcoholic extract or a tinc- 
ture. A substance which dissolves in 
^ a ter and which may be recovered in 
*e same form by the evaporation of 
,. e water is said to be in simple solu- 
.j^n. If any chemical is used so that 
we substance is made soluhle by chang- 
„ ? its state, it is known as a chemical 
80 hUion and the original substance can- 



which^it^rafde? X Sam 1 ,0 ™ * 
tallic copper i^,^^* 
but ,n the process the copper i cLll 
to copper nitrate and therefore c 3 
be recovered as metallic c^per 

Water is the most used solvent ale 
hoi takes second place and then In- 
stances as glycerine, ether, aceC 
turpentine, carbon tetra chloride, ^ 
J h , e ™ st . us ^d chemical solvents 
hydrochloric acid, nitric acid 
ammonia. 

If there is any doubt as to whet 
a substance is soluble in water or in 
any other solvent, it is only necessary 
to shake it with some one of these and 
then to allow it to stand for a short 
time. If some of the liquid is then 
evaporated to dryness, there will be a 
residue left of more or less bulk depend- 
ing upon the extent to which the ma- 
terial is soluble in the particular sol- 
vent used. 

The principal aid to rapid solution 
is pulverization which allows the solvent 
to come in contact with as large a sur- 
face as possible. Heat is next in im- 
portance because most substances are 
more soluble at high temperatures than 
they are at low temperatures. Agita- 
tion hastens solution because it con- 




Fig. 38 



stantly replaces ^^SaSS 3 
of the solution ™" ch ™ h would other- 
rounds the sohd and w ^ fa se 
wise tend to reta ira ^ ^ raec hanical 
of its saturation- ^Xo mUe by any 
aids to ag lta ^°" ™f, y af ter the pattern 
one handy with tools , ««« £ er to 
illustrated in Fig. ao. 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 

operate this machine may be obtained 
from a water motor or any other sim- 
ple source. 

Maceration. When a substance is al- 
lowed to fro into solution by simply 
©lacing it in contact with the solvent 
it ordinary temperatures, the process is 
called maceration. This operation is 
used when it is not permissible to use 
heat because of the danger of injuring 
the product. 

Infusion. When heat is applied in the 
above process by first boiling the water 
and pouring it over the material to be 
dissolved, the product is called an in- 
fusion It is used when the substance 
may be submitted to a fairly high de- 
gree of heat for a short time without 
injury. It is employed almost exclusively 
in removing the soluble matter from 
flowers, leaves, roots, seeds, etc. 

Digestion. This is usually considered 
to mean the conversion of a substance 
into the soluble state with the aid of a 
solvent which is kept at a constant tem- 
perature for a rather long period of 
time, depending upon the nature of the 
material. For this purpose a waterbath, 
a sandbath or an incubator is employed 
to maintain the desired degree of heat 
which is usually just- below the boiling 
point of the solvent. The substance 
acted upon is placed in a covered dish 
to prevent rapid evaporation and left 
to itself until the process is completed. 
It is principally used for the decomposi- 
tion of minerals which are but slowly 
acted upon by the solvent. 

Percolation. This is an economical 
and rapid method of extracting the 
soluble matter from a large mass of ma- 
terial with a minimum amount of sol- 
vent. For this purpose a piece appa- 
ratus known as a percolator is used, Fig. 
89, The drugs are first ground and 
stirred with the solvent to form a thick 
porridge which is then placed in the 
percolator. Care should be taken that 
the drug is packed so that no fissures 
are present which would allow the sol- 
vent to pass through without coming into 
prolonged contact, with the drug and 
yet not tight enough to prevent the 
solvent from seeping through. Alcohol 
of the desired percentage is poured on 
the drug to form a layer of about 3 
inches and the percolator is then cov- 
ered. The maceration may be consid- 
ered at an end in about three days and 
the solvent allowed to run off. The 
quantity of the solvent used varies ac- 
cording to the degree of concentration 



<:thods 

of the extract it is desired to produce 
The percolate is usually divided into < 
first run corresponding to about 85% of 
the extractible matter and a secondary 
percolate may be as large as may_ be 
necessary to complete the extracting 



Fig. 39 



Fig, 40 



This is then concentrated by distillation 
to any desired strength. 

Another method of extraction is that 
of shaking out. In this method the ob- 
ject is to remove certain substances 
from a liquid by means of adding an- 
other liquid in which the substance is 
more soluble. It is necessary that the 
second liquid be one which will not mix 
with the first. In practice, aqueous or 
alcoholic liquids containing aromatic 
substances are shaken with chloroform, 
benzene, carbon tetra chloride, or sim- 
ilar liquids into which the aromatic sub- 
stance will pass. The mixture is then 
placed in what is known as a separating 
funnel and the heavier one which sinks 
to the bottom is allowed to pass off by 
opening the stop-cock. Fig. 40. 

Weighing 

The accuracy with which a substance 
may be weighed depends on the sensi- 
tiveness of the scale and the skill of the 
operator. The analytical chemist re- 
quires a balance which will weigh accu- 
rately such small amounts as one-tenth 
of a milligram. A scale for weighing 
material to be used in compounding 
recipes need not be sensitive to less than 
one-tenth of a gram. The precautions 
to be observed in weighing are as fol- 
lows: Do not allow corrosive substances 
to come in contact with the metal pans 



USEFUL WORKSHOP AND 

of a scale because the pans will be ruined 
Lei the material contaminated. Always 
counterbalance two pieces of paper or a 
Jjjsh on the pans and add the material 
to this. Do not touch the weights with 
the fingers as they will soon become 
corroded and either increase or decrease 
■ m weight and thus interfere with the 
accuracy of the scale. Always manipu- 
late the weights with a pair of forceps, 
pjgs. 41. 42- 



Fig. 41 

The metric system of weights and 
measures is much more convenient than 
the English system and as its principles 
are learned in a few minutes all workers 
should purchase scales with gram 



Pig. 42 

heights. Most formulas are based on 
the metric system and if avoirdupois 
weights are used it is necessary to con- 
vert one into the other before the work 
can go on. 

Formulas which are written so that 
lti e quantities are given in so many 
p' E jT ta of each ingredient are adapted to 
either system and if such figures as 
wree parts of salt and one part of soda 
°f e given, they may be interpreted as 
yeaning three ounces of salt and one 
J"»nce of soda or three grams of salt and 
ii ^ gram of soda or any other amount 
. a t the worker finds convenient to em- 
% as a unit. 

it is always best, when trying a new 
r«.^^ e, to make a small quantity of a 
P^duct the first time, so as not to- 



LABORATORY METHODS 

gams experience the cheaper grades ma 
be employed with more safety. 

Liquids may be weighed or measured 
If weighed, the vessel is first co™ 
balanced on the scale pan and the liqu 
is then added and weighed in the sa 
way that a solid would be. 

A very convenient type of scales i: 
shown here. They are provided with 
eliding weight which is a great aid 1 
counterbalancing the pans in the even 
of paper or other container bein 
necessary. Fig. 43. 



Fig. 43 

Specific Gravity 

A great many people have difficult 
in understanding what is meant by sjr 
cific gravity. An effort will be made 
explain what is meant by -this term. 

It is well known that alcohol 
lighter than water and that tar 
heavier. If three vessels of the sa 
size are each filled with one of tht 
substances and then weighed it may 
found that the alcohol may weigh t\ 
pounds, the water three pounds and « 
tar six pounds. From this it will 
seen that the alcohol weighs % as muc 
as the water and the tar twice as mnc' 
We are now able to say that - 
amount of this alcohol weighs % 
much as the same quanbty of wate 
This is the same thing as sa ying that tt 



siv USEFUL WORKSHOP AND LAB OR A"] 



a bottle known as a ^'j^f^ 
bottle, Fig. 44, and then to fill the same 



Fig- 1* 

bottle with water and weigh that The 
weight of the liquid divided by the 
weight of the water gives the specific 
gravity of the liquid. It is necessary to 
feduct the weight of the bottle itself 
from each weighing before the result .is 
computed. The formula for this de~ 
termination is as follows: 
Weight of substance 

=specific gravity. 

Weight of water 

For large quantities of liquids it is 
possible to use an instrument known as 



Fig. 45 

a hydrometer which is placed in the 
liquid. The extent to which the hydrom- 



eter sinks depends upon the specific 
erravity of the liquid. Markings on the 
stem indicate the specific gravity and 
they may be read directly without anj 
calculation. This instrument is made in 
many forms which are classified accord- 
ing to whether they are to be used for 
liquids lighter or heavier than water. 
Fig. 45. 

Specific Gravity of a Solid 

The principle of this method is the 
same as for a liquid but the operation 
is somewhat different. If a solid is im- 
mersed in a liquid it will displace an 
amount which is equal to its own 
volume. At the same time it will lose in 
weight an amount which is equal to the 
weight of the amount of liquid it dis- 
placed. Therefore if we know the 
amount of weight it loses on being im- 
mersed in water, we know its volume 
and also the weight of the volume of 
water displaced. If its weight in air is 
divided by the amount it loses when 
placed in water or, what is the same 
thing, the weight of water displaced, the 
result is its specific gravity. Substances 
soluble in water may have their spe- 
cific gravity estimated by weighing 
them in some liquid in which they are 
insoluble. For instance, the specific 
gravity of sugar may be taken in alco- 
hol and then converted into its true 
figure by proportion. 

The specific gravity of substances 
lighter than water may be taken by at- 
taching to them a heavier mass of metal 
which will make them sink. The spe- 
cific gravity of the metal is then de- 
ducted from that of both together and 
the specific gravity of the substance is 
the remainder- 



HOW AND WHERE TO PROCURE 
INGREDIENTS AND EQUIPMENT 



IF the reader is to pursue either a money-saving or money-making cours 
of action in the use of this book— or even if he may proceed with purpos 
which make these factors secondary— access to the right prices and t 
convenience of procurement will add to the effectiveness and satisfaction o 
his pursuits. 

Fortunately for the amateur, there are few walls of price protection 
monopolies of exclusiveness in the industries to which he will turn for m 
terials or equipment; he will not be obliged to pay premium prices if 
may not happen to be engaged in manufacturing or distributing comme 
dally; catalogues with one-price designations are available for the mere a 
ing, from manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, retailers. Usually prices v_ 
only with quantity or grade ; many containers are returnable for full credi 
transportation cost is allowed on quantity items; information is freely give 

If occasional difficulty may be encountered in dealing with any supplier, 
if special aid is desired, mention of Fortunes In Formulas will prob 
bly open doors for you; for while your publishers take no direct part in a 
trading transactions between the users of its publications and suppliers, a bo 
of wholesome respect for the book exists throughout the world of ind 
trial science and chemistry, wherein courtesy favors are frequently exchanged. 

With a view to providing owners of Fortunes In Formulas with at least 
an introduction and a fair start toward accessibility of materials equipment, 
service, and prices, the Editors have provided "A Buyers Guide (see 
page xix). 



MEASURING MADE EASY 



It trill be noticed that many of the formulas in this book call for so many pa - 
0 f each ingredient rather than for so many ounces or other definite amounts. F 
instance, on page 145 the formula for camphor ice is given as follows: 
White wax 16 parts 

Benzoated suet 48 parts 

Camphor, powdered 8 parts 

Formulas like the above are given in parts in order that they may be easily com- 
pounded by the worker who has but little equipment. As it may not always be 
necessarv to make the exact quantity that a definite formula would produce, 
formulas* stated in parts lend themselves more readily to variations in total! quan- 
tity of finished product, as explained more fully below. 

Formulas expressed in parts fall into three general classes; those in which all 
the ingredients are liquid, those in which all are solid, and those in which solids and 
liquids are mixed. 

CLASS I 
Ingredients Are All Liquids 

The formula may call for parts and half parts as follows: 
Chromic acid 2% parts . 

Ammonia 15 P arts 
Sulphuric acid % P art 

Cuprammonia sol. 30 P arts 

In this case one part may be considered to mean one ^J^/SftS 
mean 10 cupfuls. If this will make more or less than the quan u £ and „ ne 

is necessary is to substitute one spoonful for each part if ess l ^ ^ 

quart for one part if more is wanted. The following examples win 
For a smaU quantity use the following: (The figures m e 
are doubled so as to make the fractions whole numbers.) 

Chromic acid 5 spoonfuls 

. . 30 spoonfuls 

Ammonia " r , , 

Sulphuric acid "^ZnMs 
Cuprammonia sol. 60 sp 

For a 

larger quantity use the following! 

' %y„ quarts 

Chromic acid £ quarts 

Ammonia 1 . t 

Sulphuric acid go quarts 

Cuprammonia sol. ^ 
xvii 



CLASS II 



Ingredients Are All Solids 



„. * »ii <=«liH B narts may be considered to mean ounces, 

Where the ingredients are all oohde, parts may fnllnws . 
pounds or tons, depending upon the quantity desxred, as follow^ 

FOR SMAL1 QUANTITY 
ORIGINAL RECIFE TAKE 

Borax 2% parte 2% ounces 

Glass 10 parts 10 ounces 

Soda 3 parts 3ounccs 



TOlt LARGER QUANTITY 
TAKE 

2% pounds 
10 pounds 
3 pounds 



CLASS III 

Ingredients Are Solids and Liquids in Combination 
The following formula calls for a certain number of parte of substances, some 



of which are solid and some liquid: 
Beeswax 
Water 

Potash carbonate 



8 parts 
66 parts 
4 parts 



For a small quantity use one-eighth of the figures given and consider them as 
ounces; 

Beeswax 1 ounce avoirdupois 

Water 7 fluid ounces, or a little less than % pint 

Potash carbonate y z ounce avoirdupois 

For a larger quantity use: 

Beeswax 8 pounds 

Water 56 pounds, equal to 56 pints, or 7 gallons 

Potash carbonate 4 pounds 



In cases where liquids are of such nature that they cannot be measured in fluid 
ounces, it is necessary to weigh them just as solids are weighed. Thick tar would 
be such a substance, and in this case a vessel is counterbalanced on the. scale and 
sufficient additional wei'ghis added to the pan to make up the required amount 
The tar is then added until the scale balances. 



BUYERS' GUIDE 



ANILINE COLORS AND 
DYESTUFFS 

National Aniline & Color Co., Inc. 
P Rector St., New York, N. Y. 

BaC W. e 3rtlfst.rNe W York, N. Y. 

Maher Color & Chemical Co. 
620 Orleans St., Chicago, 111. 

Andreykovics & Dunk 

N. Front St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

ASPHALTS AND PITCHES 

The Barrett Co. 

40 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 
Barber Asphalt Co. 

1900 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Allied Asphalt & Mineral Corp. 
217 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

Zophar Mills, Inc. 

591 Court St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

BARBERS' SUPPLIES 

Lewis Bros., Inc. 

142 W. 24th St., New York, N. Y. 
Buehholtz & Co. 

£13 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

BOTTLE CAPS 

Anchor Cap & Clusure Corp. 

22 Queens St., Long Island City, N. Y. 

Crown Cork & Seal Co. 

219 36th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Dipolene Mfg. Co., Inc. 

19 Pulton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

General Seal Co. 

"8 Varick St., New York, N. Y. 
National Seal Co. 

^th Ave. and 37th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

S^SfiT 8 Sealing Corp - 

BOXTLERS' MACHINERY 

? n B inc ering Corp. 
BS 60th St., New York, N. Y. 

luir & Westerman 
u * Worth St., New York, N. Y. 



Arthur Colton Co. 
Detroit, Mich. 

Geller-Barstaedt Co. 
161 E. 33rd St., New York, N. y. 

Satisfaction Supply Co. 
SI W. 3rd St., New York, N. Y. 

BOTTLERS' SUPPLIES 

Acme Cork Co. 

893 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

American Cork Specialty Co. 
115 Sutton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Armstrong Cork Co. ' 
295 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Atlantic Cork Co. 
4313 Third Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Consolidated Cork Co. 
55 Bogart St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Keystone Bottler Supply Co. 
4338 White Plains Rd., New York, N. 

BOXES (Cosmetic) 

Box Novelties, Inc. 

55 E. 11th St., New York, N. Y. 

Clark Box & Label Co. 
Jamestown, N. Y. 

F. N. Burt Co. 

540 Seneca St., Buffalo, N. Y. 

BOXES (Paper) 

Atlantic Carton Co. 
Norwich, Conn. 
Baltimore Paper Box Co. 
Baltimore, Md. 

Dennison Mfg. Co. 
Framingham, Mass. 

Robert Gair Co. „ y 

350 Madison Ave., New York, «. 

Randolf Box Co. 
Chicago, HI. 

BOXES (Wood) 

^Broadway, New York, N.Y. 
United Box &L^b- 2 
131 Franklin ht., ^ c 



CANS (Tin) 
Acme Can Co. 

1150 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

American Can Co. 

230 Park Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Continental Can Co, 

100 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Metal Package Corp. 

110 E, 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Wilson & Bennett Mfg. Co. 

6640 So. Menard Ave., Chicago, 111. 

CHEMICAL APPARATUS 

Central Scientific Co. 

220 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Eimer & Amend 

205 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Empire Laboratory Supply Co. 
559 W. 132nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Fischer Scientific Co. 

709 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Emil Greiner Co. 

55 Van Dam St., New York, N. Y. 

Palo-Myers, Inc. 

81 Reade St., New York, N. Y. 

A. H. Thomas & Co. 

West Washington Square, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

The Will Corp. 
Rochester, N. Y. 

CHEMICALS 

J. T. Baker Chemical Co. 
Phillipsburg, N. J. 

City Chemical Co. 

132 W. 22nd St., New York, N. Y. 

Chas. Cooper & Co. 

194 Worth St., New York, N. Y. 

Eastman Kodak Co. 

343 State St., Rochester, N. Y. 

Eimer & Amend 

205 Third Ave., New York, N. Y. 

General Chemical Co. 

P. O. Box 397, Reading, Pa. 

Merck & Co., Inc. 
Rahway, N. J. 

Porter Chemical Co. 
Hagerstown, Md. 

CHEMICALS, EXPERIMENTAL 

LOTS 
R. F. Revson Co. 
91 Seventh Ave., New YoTk, N. Y. 



CHEMISTS (Analytical) 

Associated Industrial Chemists 
1918 71st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Chas. V. Bacon 

3 Park Row, New York, N. Y. 

Bendiner & Schlessinger 

10th St. and 3rd Ave, New York, N. Y. 

Samuel F. Sadtler & Son, Inc. 
210 So. 13th St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

CHEMISTS (Industrial, Consulting & 
Research) 

Associated Industrial Chemists 
1918 71st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Grinstead Laboratory 

505 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Arthur D. Little, Inc. 

30 Charles River Road, Cambridge, Mass. 

The Orthmann Laboratories, Inc. 
647 W. Virginia St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

COLLAPSIBLE TUBES 

Bond Mfg. Co. 
Wilmington, Del. 

Globe Collapsible Tube Corp. 

28 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

A. H. Wirz, Inc. 
Chester, Pa. 

CONFECTIONERY, JAMS AND 
PRESERVES 

Le Roy's International Candy Service 
1612 Neptune Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

CONTAINERS (Fibre) 

Bird & Sons, Inc. 
East Walpole, Mass. 

Carpenter Container Corp. 
137 41st St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Chemical Sales Corp, 

75 West St., New York, N. Y. 

ESSENTIAL OILS 

Dodge & Oleott Co. 

180 Varick St., New York, N. Y. 

Florasynth Laboratories, Inc. 

1513-1533 Olmstead Ave., New York, N.Y. 

Givaudan-Delawanna, Inc. 
80 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

Magnus, Mabee & Reynard, Inc. 
32 Cliff St., New York, N. Y. 

Riddle Chemical Co. 
35 So. Dearborn St„ Chicago, 111. 



Geo. W. Smith & Sons 
I Natoma St., San Francisco, Cal. 

va n Ameringen-Haebler, Inc. 

315 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Raker Extract Co. 

T9 Wall St., New York, N. Y. 

Chicago Spice Flavoring Extract Co. 
920 So. Western Ave., Chicago, 111. 

Essential Materials Co, 

59 Fulton St., New York, N, Y. 

Florasvnth Laboratories, Inc. 

1.513-1533 Olmstcad Ave., New York, N.Y. 

Polak's Fruital Works, Inc. 

350 W. 31st St., New York, N. Y. 

van Ameringen-Haebler, Inc. 

315 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y. 

GLASS BOTTLES AND JARS 

Brockway Sales Co. 
Brockway, Pa. 

Hazel Atlas Glass Co. 
Wheeling, W. Va. 

Owens Illinois Glass Co, 
Toledo, Ohio 

Whitall Tatum Co. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

GUM SPECIALISTS 

George H. Lincks 

123 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

GUMS AND RESINS 

Geo. H. Lincks 

123 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

Gillespie-Rogers-Pyatt, Inc. 
80 John St., New York, N. Y. 

Innis Speiden & Co., Inc. 

117 Liberty St., New York, N. Y. 

LABELS 

Acme Seal & Label Co. 

382 Lafayette St., New York, N, Y. 

American Label Co. 

216 W. 18th St., New York, N. Y. 

Dennison Mfg. Co. 
*ramingham, Mass. 

Ever-Ready Label Corp. 

1« E. 25th St., New York, N. Y. 

?.o ndolf Box & Label Co. 
«*3 W, Van Buren St., Chicago, 111. 



LAUNDRY CHEMICALS 

Consumers Chemical Co. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

Legrand Bleach Corp 
111 49th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Solvay Sales Corp. 
61 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 
Sunshine Soda Co. 
45 E. 17th St., New York, N. Y. 

The "Ultramarine Co. 
Bound Brook, N. J. 

MINERAL FILLERS 

Chas. B. Chrystal Co. 
11 Park Place, New York, N, Y. 

D. H. Litter Co. 

110 W. 40th St., New York, N. Y. 

Whittaker Clark & Daniels, Inc. 
245 Front St., New York, N. Y. 

OILS AND FATS 

Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. 
233 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 

Cook-Swan Co. 

122 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. 

National Oil Products Co. 
Harrison, N. J. 

Spencer Kellogg & Sons Sales Corp. 
Buffalo, N. Y. 

W T elch, Holme & Clark Co., Inc. 
563 Greenwich St., New York, N. Y. 

The Werner G. Smith Co. 
Cleveland, Ohio 

PAINT COLORS AND PIGMENTS 

Fezandie & Sperrle, Inc. 

205 Fulton St., New York, N. Y. 

Harshaw Chemical Co. 
Cleveland, Ohio 

Imperial Color Works 
Glen Falls, N. Y. 
C. K. Williams & Co, 
Easton, Pa. 

PAINT AND PAINT MATERIALS 

Bade Bros. • 
84 Bowery, New York, «. i. 

H. Behlen & Bro. K Y 

10 Christopher St., New York, N. Y. 

PAPER (Glassine) 

Baehm Co. ■w.-v 1M Y 

219 Fulton St., New York, JN. x. 

Direct Wax Paper Co. „ 
413 W. Broadway, New York, N. X. 



xxi 



PATENT AND TRADEMARK 
LAWYERS 

L. F. Randolph 

72G-B Ninth St., Ni W„ Washington, D. C 
(Patents secured and Trade-Marks reg 
jsteredj 

PERFUMERS AND SOAP- 
MAKERS SUPPLIES 

Evergreen Chemical Co., Inc. 
160 Fifth Ave., New York, N. i. 



RESINS (Synthetic) 

The Barrett Co. (Cumar) 
4.0 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 
Bakelite Corporation ( Bakclite) 
247 Park Ave., New York, N. Y. 
General Plastics, Inc. (Dure^ 
North Tonawanda, N. l - 
The Resinous Products & Chemical Co. 

(Ambcrol) _ 
222 W. Washington Square, Philadelphia, 
Pa. 



American Mineral Spirits Co. 

332 So. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 

The Barrett Co. 

40 Rector St., New York, N. Y. 

Commercial Solvents Corp. 

230 Park Ave., Now York, N. Y. 

Rossville Commercial Alcohol Corp. 
Terre Haute, Ind. 




COMMON OR EVERYDAY NAMES OF 
CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES 



Common Names Chemical Names 

AQUA FORTIS NITRIC ACID 

AQUA REGIA NITRIC AND HYDROCHLORIC ACIDS 

BAKING SODA SODIUM BICARBONATE ' 

BARYTA, HEAVY SPAR BARIUM OXIDE 

BARYTES BARIUM SULPHATE 

BLUE STONE, BLUE VITRIOL COrrER SULPHATE 

BORAX, TYNTCAL SODIUM TETRABORATE 

BRIMSTONE SULPHUR 

BUTTER OF ANTIMONY ANTIMONY TRICHLORIDE 

CALOMEL MERCUROUS CHLORIDE 

CARBOLIC ACID , PHENOL 

CAUSTIC POTASH POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE 

CAUSTIC SODA SODIUM HYDROXIDE 

CHALK CALCIUM CARBONATE 

CINNABAR , MERCURY SULPHIDE 

COPPERAS, GREEN VITRIOL FERROUS SULPHATE 

CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE MERCURIC CHLORIDE 

CREAM OF TARTAR POTASSIUM BITARTRATE 

EPSOM SALTS MAGNESIUM SULPHATE 

FLAKE WHITE, PEARL WHITE BISMUTH SUBNITRATE 

FLUORSPAR y CALCIUM FLUORIDE 

GLAUBERS SALTS /...SODIUM SULPHATE 

GRAIN ALCOHOL ETHYL ALCOHOL, ETHANOL 

GYPSUM CALCIUM SULPHATE 

HORN SILVER SILVER CHLORIDE 

HYp O SODIUM THIOSULPHATE 

LAUGHING GAS NITROUS OXIDE 

LITHARGE LEAD OXIDE 

LIVER OF SULPHUR POTASSIUM SULPHIDE 

LUNAR CAUSTIC SILVER NITRATE 

LYE SODIUM OR POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE 

MAGNESIA MAGNESIUM OXIDE 

METHYLATED SPIRITS, WOOD ALCOHOL .. METHYL ALCOHOL — METHANOL 

MOSAIC GOLD TIN BISULPHIDE 

MURIATIC ACID HYDROCHLORIC ACID 

OIL .OF VITRIOL SULPHURIC ACID 

ORPIMENT ARSENIC TRISULPHIDE 

PEARL ASH POTASSIUM CAIffiONATE 

xxlii 



° 0M "^MCAL = SUBSTANCES 

Chemical Names 

Common Names .CALCIUM SULPHATE 

PLASTER OF PARIS GRAPHITE 

PLUMBAGO, BLACK-LEAD '...CALCIUM CARBONATE 

PRECIPITATED CHALK ' ' FERRIC _ FERROcrANIDE 

PRUSSIAN BLUE ^HYDROCYANIC ACID 

PRUSSIC ACID * . PYROGALLIC ACID 

PYRO CALCIUM OXIDE 

QUICKLIME MERCURY 

QUICKSILVER LEAD OXIDE 

RED LEAD, MINIUM POTASSIUM AND SODIUM TARTRATE 

ROCHELLE SALT ■ ■ •■• ■ ■ ■ • • • ' AMM0NIUM CHLORIDE 

SAL AMMONIAC * SODIUM CARBONATE— CRYSTALLINE 

SAL SODA POTASSIUM QUADROXALATE 

SALT OF SORREL 

,L„«/«n SODIUM CHLORIDE 

SALT (COMMON) 

SALTPETER CHILE SODIUM NITRATE 

SALTPETER, NITRE POTASSIUM NITRATE 

SAL VOLATILE AMMONIUM SESQUICARBONATE 

SALT OF HARTSHORN"! AMMONIUM CARBONATE 

SLAKED LIME • CALCIUM HYDROXIDE 

SODA ASH SODIUM CARBONATE 

SPIRIT OF HARTSHORN AMMONIA 

SPIRITS OF SALT HYDROCHLORIC ACID 

SUGAR OF LEAD ....LEAD ACETATE 

TARTAR EMETIC ANTIMONY AND POTASSIUM TARTRA1 

TIN ASHES STANNIC OXIDE 

VERDIGRIS COPPER ACETATE 

VINEGAR ACETIC ACID 

WASHING SODA SODIUM CARBONATE 

WATER GLASS SODIUM SILICATE 

WHITE COPPERAS ZINC SULPHATE 

WHITE LEAD LEAD CARBONATE 

WHITE VITRIOL ZINC SULPHATE 

WHITE ZINC ZINC OXIDE 



xxiv 



LATIN NAMES OF DRUGS AND CHEMICALS 
TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



Latin has been universally adopted in writing prescriptions. Necessity d 
manded a uniform international method, and since Latin was the univers 
language when science and chemistry were in their infancy, its use has be 
retained throughout the civilized world. It was not adopted, as supposed b\ 
many, in order to mystify or to enable purveyors to charge exorbitant prices 
for simple products. 



Absinthium (Artemisia absinthium} — 

Wormwood 
Acacia (Mucilago acacia) — Gum Arabic 
Acetum Opii — Vinegar of Opium 
Acetum Scillte — Vinegar of Squill 
Acidum Acetieum dilutum — Acetic acid 

diluted 

Acidum Arsenosujtu — White arsenic. Ar- 

senous acid 
Acidum Itenaolcum — Benzoic acid 
Acidum Boricum — Boric acid 
Acidum Carholicum (Phenol) — Carbolic 

acid 

Acidum Citricum (Syrupus acidi C.) — 
Citric acid 

Acidum Hydrochloricum — Muriatic acid, 
Hydrochloric acid 

Acidum Hyflroeyanicum dilutum — 
Prussic acid 

Acidum Hypophosphorosuiu dilutum — 
Diluted hypophosphorous acid 

Acidum tacticum — Lactic acid 

Acidum. IV'itiricum dilutum — Diluted Ni- 
tric acid 

Acidum Oleieuui — Oleic acid 

Acidum Fliosplioricuin — Phosphoric acid 

Acidum Salicylicum — Salicylic acid 

Acidum Stearicum — Stearic acid from 
solid fata 

Acidum Sulphurosum — Sulphuric acid: 

sulphur dioxide and water 
Acidum Tannieum — Tannic acid, from 

Niitgall 

Acidum Tnrtnrieum — Tartaric acid 
Aconitum — Aconite, Aconitum Napellus 
^Ether (Ethyloxide) — Ether 
Alcohol dilutum (alcohol B0% and 

water) — Diluted Alcohol Spirit 
Allium (syrupus Attn} — Garlic 
Aloe Harbadciists (Aloe vera) — Barba- 

does Aloes 
Aloe Socotrina (Aloe perryi) — Socotrine 

Aloes 

Alumen (Alumen Exsicoatum) — Alum, 

Dried or burnt Alum 
Alumlnl Hydras — Aluminum hydrate 
AJumini Sulphas — Aluminum Sulphate 
Amnuuifncum (Gum of Dor ema ammonia- 

cum) — Ammoniac 
Ammo nit Benzoaa — Ammonium Ben- 

Zoate. 

Ainmonll Bromldum — Ammonium Bro- 
mide 



Amnion it Carhonas (Preparation Spiri- 
tus AramoTiifE aromaticus) — Ammo- 
nium Carbonate; aromatic spirits of 
ammonia 

Amnion ii Cliloridum — Ammonium chlo- 
ride 

Aminraiii Indldum — Ammonium iodide 
Amylum (Glyceritum Amyli) — Starch 
Antimonii et Fotassi Tartras — Tart 

emetic, Tartrates antimony 
Antimonii Sulphiiluiii — Antimony 

phtde 

Apocyuum (Apocymim cannabinam)- 

nadian hemp 
Aqua destillata — Distilled water, pi 

water 

Aqua ammouise (10% by weight of gas) 

— Ammonia water; aromatic spirits 

of Ammonia 
Aqua Ammonia; fortior (28% by weight 

of gas)— -Stronger ammonia water 
Aqua Anisi — Anise "Water 
Aqua Cainpliorse— Camphor water 
Aqua Clilori — Chlorine water 
Aqua Jfceenlcnli — Fennel water 
Aqua Hydrogenil Dioxidi — Hydrog 

dioxide 

Argent! Cyanidum (AgCN) — Silver 
anide 

Argenti Todidum (AgD— Silver iodid 
Argenti Ititras (AgNOa)— Silver nitra 
Argenti Nitras Fusus — Lunar caustic 
Argenti Oxidum (Ag s O)— Silver oxide 
Arnicie Flores (Arnica montana) — Arni 

flowers . . 

Arseni Todidum (Asia)— Arsenic lodi 
Asnfcetldn (Ferula fcetida)— Asaf etida 
Asclepias (Asclepias tuberosa) — Pleuris 

root . ,. . 

Aspidlum (Dryoptsris marginal™)— Mt 

A /rnpinrc (Alkaloid of Atropa belladonna 
— Atropine, deadly nightshade 

Auri et Sodli CJilorJdum— Gold and So 
dium Chloride, . 

Belladonna. Folia (Atrtfa belladonna) 
Belladonna leaves 

Belladonna HadU-Be ladonna roo 

Benxinum (from Petr P leum ^|^"" m 
Benxoinnm (Styrax benzoin)— Balsam 
resin, Benzoin . „ io „ 0 „ 
Blamutl.1 et Ammonll Citrus— Bismu 

and ammonia citrate 



LATIN NAMES TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



and 



Bryonia (Bryonia alba)— Bryony 
Bnrhu (Barosma bclulma) — Buchu 
Cafteina— Chief extract of Tea 
Coffee 

Caffeina CItrnin — Citrated caffeine 
Calamus (Acornus calamus) — Sweet flag 
CnlcU Bromidum— Calcium Bromide 
Calcii Chloridlum — Calcium chloride; 

Lime and chloride 
Calcli Hypophosphis— Calcium Hypo- 
phosphite . 
Oalcii Sulphas Exslccatus — Dried Gyp- 

Oalendula (Calendula officinalis)— Marigold 
Calumba (Jateorhisa palmata) — Calumba 
Calx (CaO from white marble, calcium 

carbonate, oyster shells)— Lime 
Calx Chlorinata— Chlorinated lime 
Calx suinhurata— Sulphurated lime 
Cambogia (gum-resin Garcinia Han- 

burii) — Gamboge 
Cannpliora (Steropten Chummomitm cam- 

phora) — Camphor 
Cannabis Indica (Cannabis saitva)— Indian 

hemp . , . 

Cmntharis (Insect, Cantharts ves\ca%ona 

dried)— Spanish flies 
Capsicum (Capsicum fastigiatum) — Cayenne 

pepper 

Carho Animalis— Animal charcoal 
Carl.o Ugni— Charcoal 

Cardamomuiii (Elettaria repens) — Carda- 
mom 

Ca&carilla (Croton elutcria)— Cascarilla 

Cassia Fistula — Purging Cassia 

Cetraria — Iceland Moss 

Charta Potassii-fVitratis — Potassium Ni- 
trate paper 

Charta Suiapis— Mustard paper 

Chenopodium — American wormseed 

Chloral — Chloral hydrate 

ChJoroformum — Chloroform 

Chondrus — Irish moss, Carragheen 

Coca (Erythroxylon coca) — Coca 

Coeninai Hydrochloras — Hydrochl orate 
of Cocaine 

Coccus (female bug Coccus cacti) — Co- 
chineal 

Codeinu— Alkaloid from Opium 
CoUodium — Pyroxylin, ether and alco- 
hol 

Collodinra Flexile — Flexible Collodium 
Coloeynthis (Citrullws coloeynthis) — Colo- 
cynth 

Oreosotum — Mixture of Phenols of 

wood-tar; creosote 
Cretu uruiparata (CaC0 3 ) — Prepared 

chalk 

Crocus (Crocus sotivus) — Saffron 
Cubeba (Piper cubeba)— Cubeb 
Capri Sulphas — Copper sulphate 
lUasiica (Hcvea) — India-rubber 
Emi»laatrujn — Plaster 
Guulanm — Emulsion 

Bucalyptol (Eucalyptus globulus) — Euca- 
lyptus 

Eupatorlum (Eupatorium perfoliatum) — 

Thoroughwort. 
Kitractnm — Extract, 
Fel Bovis— Oxgall, ox bile 
Ferri Oni-lionas Saceliarnttis — Sugared 

iron carbonate 



I<"errl Clilorlilum — Iron chloride 

Ferri Citras — Iron citrate 

Ferri et Ammonll Citras — Iron and am- 
monia citrate 

Ferri et Ammonii Sulphas — Iron and 
am. Sulphate 

Ferri et Ammouit Tnrtras — Iron and 
am. tartrate 

Fejrri et StryelmliiH! Citras — Iron and 
Strychnine citrate 

Ferri Hypophosphis — Iron and hypo- 
phosphite 

Ferri Sulphas — Iron Sulphate 

Pcinun — Iron 

Glycerinum — Glycerin, from decomposi- 
tion of fats 

Hamamelis — "Witch hazel 

Hcdeoma — Pennyroyal 

Hamulus (H. lupulus) — Hops 

Hyarnrgyiri Chloridum Corrosivum — 
Corrosive mercuric chloride, corro- 
sive sublimate 

Hydrargyrum (Hg) — Mercury, Quick- 
silver 

Ichthyocolla — Isinglass 
1 hi us a — Infusion. 

lodoformum — A preparation containing 
Iodine 

Iodum (I) — A heavy metal 
ipecacuanha (Ccphalis I.) — Ipecac 
I. in tin cut ii in — Liniment 
Linum (Linitm usiatissimum)— Flaxseed, 
Liquor Calcis — Solution of Lime, lime 
water 

Lithli Ben^oas — Lithium Eenzoafe 
JjObelta (Lobelia, infiata) — Lobelia 
Lupuliiiium (Hamulus lupuhts) — Lupulin 
Macis (Myristica fragrar-s)—M.3.C& 
Magnesia (MgO) — Calcined Magnesia, 

Light magnesia 
Siangan! Dioxidum— Black oxide or. 

Manganese 
Matricaria (M. chamomiUa)— German 

Chamomile 
Mistura Cretn? — Chalk mixture 
Morphine— Morphine, Alkaloid or 

Opium, Poppy plant 
Moschus— Musk, from preputial folli- 
cles of Musk ox . 
Mucilago— Mucilage of various gums 

and extracts „ „ n 

tfaphthalenum— Hydrocarbon from coal 

No^hthol— Phenol or alcohol from coal 
tar, derivative from coal tar camphor 

Mux Vomica (Strychnos nux-vo»nca)—l*vx. 
Vomica, Strychnia Alkaloid 

Oleatum— Acid oil from fats 

Oleoresina— Resin oils, composed or 
ether, the resins of the plant, ano 
minerals j>^nm 

Oleum— Fixed or volatile oils from 
plants and organic substances, as uu 
of Bergamut, oil of tar ,„„ 0 „ ft a 

Oleum Adipis — A fixed oil expressed 
from lard 

Opii Pulvis — Powdered Opium mAk . 

Opium (Papavcr somniferum) — fale f^ . 
ing Poppy," thick exudation of popi" ■ 
alkaloid, morphine. Heroine, etc. 

Panereatinum-Enzymes from Pancreas 
of warm-blooded animals, linzy"' 



LATIN NAMES TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH 



are substances in an elementary cell 
which enter food and cause a chem- 
ical change that breaks up the food 
for digestive purposes, into starch 
and other proteids 
Pepslnum (enzyme from stomachs of 
healthy pigs, etc.) — Pepsin. Digests 
3000 times its own weight of Albu- 
men 

Fepsimim Saccliaratuni — Sugared pep- 
sin, 9 to 1 

petrolatum Llquldum — Liquid Petro- 
leum 

Phosphorus — Phosphorus 
Physostisaia (P. venenosum) — Calabar 
bean 

Pilocarpus (P. selloanas) — Jaborandi 
Pimenta {Pimento, officinalis) — Allspice 
Piper (Piper nigrum) — Black pepper 
Piperinum — Neutral principle obtained 

from pepper, etc. 
Pix Burgundiea (Abies exceha) — Resin of 

Burgundy Pine 
Pix T/iquida (Pinus palustris) — Pine tar 
Plumbum — Lead. Lead combines with 

several remedies 
Plumbi acetas — Lead acetate, sugar of 

Lead 

Podophyllum (P. peltatum) — Roots of 

May Apple 
Potassa (KOH) — Potash. Combines 

with several minerals 
Potassa cum Calce — Potassa with Lime 
Potassa Sulpliuxatn — Lime of Sulphur; 

Sulphurated potassa 
Potassii Acetas— Potassium Acetate 
Potassli Bicarbonas — Potassium Bicar- 
bonate 

Potussi Bichronins — Potassium Bichro- 
mate 

Potassii Bitartras — Cream of Tartar 
Potassii et Sodii Tartras — Rochelle Salts 
Potassii Kitras — Saltpetre 
Pjroxylinum— Soluble. Gun Cotton 
Resina — Resin. Resins are made by dis- 
tilling- oft volatile oils 
Sapo — Soap. White Castile prep. Soda 

and Olive oil 
Sapo Molii«_soft Soap, Linseed oil 40, 
potassa 9, alcohol 4, water sufficient 
Mnapis Alba (Brassica alba) — "White mus- 
tard 

Sinapis Nigra (Brassica nigra) — Black 
mustard 

Se su^t (Fat ° f ° VlS Aries) — Mutton 
Soda — Soda 

S °"™ Sodii— Soda (Combines 

with a large number of bases to form 
sodium compounds, of which but few 
nave common names) 
Sodii Acetas— Soda and acetic acid 
^ pse,,I « s — Soda and arsenic 
¥' e ' lzo »s— Benzoate of soda 

Sod! rlT*??"™^ Bicarbonate of soda 
»odii Chloridum (NaCI)— Salt 
, ?" Sulphas — Glauber's Salt 
fepiritus— Spirit. (Combination of alco- 



'■Soi^r 10 of 

SpirUus Myrcia,. Sj>lrit of Myrcia-Bay 
Ferai cl.loridi— Chloride 



or 

Fetid 
from. 



Sptrttus 

Iron 

Spiritus Hyoscyami— Henbane 

nightshade, Poison tobacco 
Spiritus Iodi— Metallic element 

seaweed 
Spiritus Myrrli jb — Myrrh 
Spiritus \...r* VomicK^-Kux vomica 
poison nut of India ^ 
Spiritus Opii— Opium, Laudanum, Popov 
Plants. Alkaloids are morphme,™ 
deine, narcotme, papaverine, the- 
bame, laudamine, etc. 
Strychnia (Strychnos ntix-vomica) Alka- 
loid of Nux Vomica 
Sulphnris lodidum— Sulphur iodide 
Sulphur Lotum — Washed Sulphur 
Syrupus — Syrups are forms of prepar- 
ing- a great number of medicines, 
both single and in formulas, but gen- 
erally act only as a medium. Syrups 
are made of 850 parts of sugar and 
150 parts of water, and cannot be de- 
scribed except by formulas. 
Tabacnm (Nicotiana tabacum) — Tobacco. 
Terebinthina (Pinus palastris) — Oleoresin. 

Turpentine 
Terebinthina Canadensis (Abies balsamea) 

— Canada balsam, Balsam of Fir 
Thymol (Phenol of Thymus vulga 

— Thyme, Garden Thyme 
Tinctura — Tinctures are alcoholic sol 
tions, of non-volatile substances, al 
cohol acting- as solvent and preserva- 
tive 

Ttnctura AsnfcetidiE — Asafetida 
Tinctura Cannabis Jiidica? — Indian 

Hemp, Weed of Hashish 
Tinctura Cantharidis — Spanish fly 
Tinctura Capsici — Capsicum, Red Pe 

per 

Tinctura Cardamomi — Cardamom 

Trituratloncs ■ — Triturations — usually 
prepared with 90% of sugar of Milk 
and 10% of the principle 

Trorhisei — Lozenges or troches are pre- 
pared, with mucilage and sugar, and 
the principle, intended to dissolve 
slowly in the mouth 

Trochisci Aeidi Tanniei — Tannic acid 

Trocliisci Amnion!! ChlorMi— Ammo- 
nium Chloride and additions 

Ttroohisci Greta? — Chalk a;id additions 

Ulnius — Slippery Elm 

Unguentum — Lard (8 parts), Yellow 

wax (2 parts), Ointment 
Vinl Galliei — Brandy 
"Vltellua — Tolk of egg 
Zinci Acetas — Zinc Acetate 
Ziac-um — Zinc (Metallic- Zinc is com 

bined with a number of medicin 

principles) 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS WITH 
ENGLISH DEFINITIONS 



aS. — Of each 

Abel. — The belly 

Aco. — Accurately 

Ad. — To, up to 

Adhib. — To be administered 

Ad. lib— At pleasure 

Ad. inov. — Let there be added. 

jBg-. — The sick one 

Agit. — Shake, stir 

Agit. ante sum.— Shake before taking 

Alb. — White 

Alt.- — The other 

Alt. hor. — Every other hour 

AIv. — The belly, the bowels 

Amp. — Large 

Aq. (Aqua) — Water 

Aq. astr. — Frozen water 

Aq. bull. — Boiling' water 

Aq. ferv. vel cal.— Hot water 

Aq. pot. — Drinking- water 

Bals. — Balsam 

Bene. — Well, good 

Bib.— Drink (thou) 

Bis. — Twice 

Bis in die. — Twice a day 
Bol. — A large pill 
Brach. — Arm 

Bui. — Let St, or them, boil 
But. — Butter 
C. — A gallon 

Calom.— Mild chloride of mere. 
Cap. — Let him take 
Caput.— Of the head 
Carbas. — Linen, lint 
Caute. — Cautiously 
Cc. — Cubic centimeter. (One Gram) 
Cena. — Supper 
Chart. — Paper 
Chin, (cinchona)— Quinine 
Cib. — Food, victuals 
Coch. (cochleare— By Teaspfl. 
^och. amp. — A dessertspfl. (3ij) 
N>ch. mag.— TaMespfL, Half Ounce 
( 5sb) 

Coch. med. — Dessertspfl. — (311) 
Loch, parv.— Teaspfl. (3j) 
Colat.— Of the strained liquor 
CoIl — The neck 
Collum. — A nasal wash 
Collut. — a mouth wash 
Umimis.— Mix together 
^oncia. — Cut 
Cong, — a gallon 

r™*" ^ m -— Con tinue the medicine 

^-oq. — Boil them 

Cor.— of the heart 

Cort.— Bark 

Cras, — Tomorrow 

^Ui.— Of which; of any 

^urs hod.— During the day 

to a T A " wineBlass <3 3-13 > 
".—A day, a dose 

uec. — Pour off 



Decern. — The tenth 
Decoct. A decoction (by •boilin E > 
Decoq. — Boil down ' 
Deglut. — To be swallowed 
"glvin dup -^ Let twice as much b 
Dieb. alt.— Every other day 
Dieb. tert. — Every third day 
Dies vel D. — A day 
Dil. — Dilute thou; "diluted ' 
Div. in p. asq.— Divided In equal par 
Dol. — Pain. In pain 

Don. alv. dejec. — Until the bowels rnov 
Don. len. dol.— Until the pain is relieve 
Dos. (Dosis) — A dose 
Dr. 5 — A drachm, 60 grains, 
Dulc. (Dulcis) — Sweetness, sweet 
Dur. dolor. — While the pain lasts 
Em. (Emesis) — Vomiting 
Et. — And 

Ex, — From; out of 

Ex paul. aq. — In a very little water 

Ext., Extr. — An extract 

F. (Fac) — Make (thou) " 

F. pil. xij. — Make twelve pills 

Far. (Farina). — Flour 

Fas. lint. — A linen bandage 

Febr. — Fever 

Ferv, — Hot 

Flor. (flores). — Flowers 
Fluid, vel Fl, — Liquid 
Fol. (folia) — Leaves 
Ft. (flat) — Let it (or them) be made 
Ft, collyr. — Let eye-wash be made 
Ft, emuls. — Let emulsion be made 
Ft. en. — Let enema be made 
Ft. pulv. — Let a powder be made 
Ft. suppos, viij. — "8 suppositories" 
Ft. ung. — Let ointment be made 
Garg. — A gargle 

Gm. (gramma). — A gramme; Gram 
Gm. (gramma). — A gramme; 1 f. 3 
Gr. (Granum) — A grain; ADram 
Grum. (Grumus) — A clot (of blood) 
Gtt. (Gutta) — A drop, Drops 
H. (Hora) — An hour 
Haust. — A draught 
Hebdom. — A. week 
Herb (Herba) — An herb 
Heri. — Testerday 
Hirudo.- — A leech 
Hor. (Hora) — An hour 
Hor. decub. — At bedtime 
Hon j spat. — After one hour 
Id. (Idem)— The same 
Iden. — Repeatedly; often 
Infus. — An Infusion 
Injec. — An injection 
In plum.— In gruel 
Iter. — Let it be repeated 
Jam. — Now 
Jentac. — Breakfast 
Juscel, — A. broth 
Juscul. — A soup 



Dr. 



XXX 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS— ENGLISH DEFINITIONS 



Jux (juxta) — Near to, close by 

K (Kali) — rotassa, potassium 

Lac. (lactls)— Milk; of milk 

Lan (Lana)— Flannel; wool 

Lang. — Languor, Faintness 

Larg. (Largus)— Abundant; plenty 

Larid. (Laridum) — Lard 

Lat — Broad; wide; tlie side 

Lat admov. — Let it be applied to side 

Lat! dol. — To the painful side 

Lax. (Laxus) — Loose; open 

Lb., (Libra) — A pound 

Lect. — A bed 

Len. — Easily; gently 

Len. ter. — By rubbing- gently 

Lie. — A ligature 

Linim. — A liniment 

Lint. — Lint, linen 

Litj. — A solution 

Lot. (Lotio) — -A lotion 

M, n — a Minim; about a drop 

M. (Misce)— Mix; mix thou 

M. (manipulus) — A handful 

Mane — Morning; in the Morning 

Manus— The hand 

Mass. (Massa) — A mass 

Matut.— In the morning 

Med, (Medius) — Middle 

Mens. — By measure 

Min. — A minim 

Minut. — A minute 

Mis. — Let it be mixed 

Mis. bene, — Mix well 

Mist. — A mixture 

Mod. diet.— As to be directed 

Modic. — Moderate-sized 

Mol. (Mollis) — Soft 

Mor. sol. — In the usual manner 

Natr. (Natrium) — Sodium 

Nig. — Black 

Nisi. — Unless 

No. — In number 

Noct.— Of the night 

Noct. maneq. — Night and morning 

Non. — Not 

Non. repetat. — Not repeated 
Noxa. — An injury 
Nunc. — Now 
Nux. — A nut 

0. (Octarius)— A pint (gxvj) 16 oz. 
Oct. (Octo) — Eight 

Ocul. (Oculus) — The eye 

01. O. Opt. — Best Olive oil 
Olla. — A pot, a jar 
Omn. hor. — Every hour 
Omn. bih. — Every two hours 

Omn. quadr. hor.— Every quarter hour 

Omn. mane. — Every morning 

Omn. nocte. — Every night 

Op. (Opus) — Need, occasion 

Opt. — Best 

Oryza. — Rice 

Os (Oris) — Osmium, Mouth 
Ov. (Ovum) — Egg 
P. — By weight 
Pallid. — Pale 
Pt. esq. — Equal parts 
Part. vie. — In divided doses 
Parv. — A little 
Pastil. — A pastille, a lozenge 
Paue. — Little, a few 
Paul. — Little by little 



Pect, (Pectus) — -The breast 

Porcol. — Strain through 

Pes. — The foot 

Pess. — A pessary 

Ph. — A vial; a bottle 

Pil. (Filula) — A pill 

Pilus — The hair 

Ping. (Pinguis)— Fat; grease 

Poc. (Poculum) — A cup; a little cup 

Pon. P. — By weight 

Post, cibos. — After meals 

Postrid, — On the next day 

Pot. (Potus)- — A drink 

Pr£e. — Before, Very 

Prand. — Dinner 

Primus — The first 

Pro. — For; before; according to 

Prop. — Special ; particular 

Pro. rat. set. — According to the age of 
the patient 

Prox.— Nearest 

Pug. — A pinch 

Pulm. — Gruel, Pulmentum 

Pulv. — Powder 

Pulv. gros. — A coarse powder 
Pulv. Subtil. — A smooth powder 
Pulv. ten.. — A fine powder 
Pur. (Purus) — Pure, clean 
Purg. — A purgative 

Q. (Quadrans) — A 4th Part, a quart, 

32 oz., 2 pints 
Q. lib., Q. p. — As much as you please 
Qq. (Quisque) — Each or every 
Qq. hor. — Every hour 
q. g. — As much as is sufficient 
Q. v. — As much as you please 
Quad. — Fourfold 
Quam. — As much as 
Quart. (Quartus) — Fourth 
Quat. (Quater) — Four times 
Quinq (Quin que)— Five 
Quor. (Quorum) — Of which 
Quotid. — Daily 
IJ, cRecipc)— Take 
Rec. — Fresh, newly 
Reno v.— Renew, let it be renewed 
Resid. — Residual, remaining 
Rum. Rumen. — The throat 
S V. R.— Alcohol 
g y T. — Rectified Spirits 
Sac. lac — Sugar of Milk 
Sac. sat. — Sugar of lead 
Ssep. — -Frequently 

Salaam" (Amarum)— Magnesium sul 

Sal mi* (mirabile)^odlum Su^|| 
Sal vol. (volatile)— Ammonium oarou 
ate 

Sap . — A flavor, delicacy 

Sat.— Enough, sufficient 

Saturat.— Saturated -rains) 2* 

Scrup., 3 .—A Scruple (20 grams; 

to an ounce t the 

Scut. pect.— For protection to 

breast 

Sed. — The fundament, feces 
Semol. — Once 
Semidr.— Half a dram 
Semih.— Half an hour 
Sensim.— Gently, gradually 
Separ.— Separately 



LATIN ABBREVIATIONS— ENGLISH DEFINITIONS sxxi 



Sept. — Seven 
Septim- — A week 
Sesq. — Ono and a half 
Sesqh. — An hour and a- half 
Sesunc. — An ounce and a half 
Sev. (Sevura) — Tallow; suet 
Si— If 

Sic — So, thus 

gic — Dry. Let it be dried 
Sis- (Signa)— Write (Thou) 
Sign. — Clearly, distinctly 
Simul. — Together 
Sin. — "Without 
Sing— Of each 
Sit. — Let it be 
Solut. — A solution 
Som. (Somnus) — Sleep 
Spt. — Spirit 

Spt. vin. rect. — Rectified spt of wine 

ss (Serais) — A half 

St. — Let it stand 

Stat. — Immediately 

Stib. (Stibium) — Antimony 

Stillat. — Drop by drop 

Stom, — By stomach 

Subind. — Frequently 

Sue. — Sap, juice 

Sum. — Let him take 

Suppos. — Suppository 

Syr. — Syrup 

T. d., T. i. d. — Three times a day 
Tab. — A lozenge, tablet 
Teg. — A cover 

Temp. (Tempus) — Time; temple 



Tep. (Tepidue) — Tepid, lukewarm 
Ter. — Throe times, thrice 
Tere, Teret.— Rub, let it be rubbed 
Tert. — Third 

Thion. (Thionaa) — Sulphur 
Tinct., vel Tr. — Tincture 
Tinct. herb, rec— Tincture freah herbs 
Trit. — Triturate 
Troch. — A lozenge, troche 
Tus. (tussis) — A cough 
Tuto. — Safely 

Uln. (Ulna) — The arm, elbow 
TJlt. — At the last 
Ult. prassc. — The last ordered 
Una. — Tog-ether 

Une. 3 (uncia) — An ounce, 8 drama 
TJnct. — Anointed, besmeared 
TJng. — An ointment, unguent 
Urg. — Urgent, pressing 
Ust. — Burnt 
Ut diet. — As directed 
Vas. — A vessel, utensil, bottle 
Vas. vit. — A glass vessel 
Vehic. — Menstruum, a vehicle 
Vel.— Or 

Venen. — A poison 
Vesp. — In the evening 
"Vic. — Change 
Vin. — Wine 

Vir. — Strength, vigor, life 
Virid. — Green 
Vitel. — Yolk 
Vol.— Volatile 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Agar-Agar. A gelatinous material obtained from certain seaweeds found in th 

Pacific Ocean. It dissolves to a jelly-like mass and it is used for baeteriologkr 
work, in jellies, medicines and adhesives. 

Alabaster. — A hydrous sulphate of lime or gypsum, occurring in a very fin 
grained and translucent form. In the purest form it is snow-white but it occu 
also colored due to the presence of metallic oxides. It is found chiefly in Europe 
where on account of its softness it is carved into sculptures and various decorativ 
objects. 

Alcohol. — Commonly ethyl, grain or ethanol. To be distinguished from methy 
wood or methanol which is poisonous and different in chemical structure. 

Alloy. — Chemically a solid solution of two or more metals, although even m ! 
tures of metals are included in the term. An alloy has a melting point called t' 
eutectic, which is lower than that of any of its components. 

Alum. — Commonly potassium alum, which is a combination of potassium an 
aluminum sulphates. It occurrs as the mineral kalinite. It is very astringent and i 
used for purifying water. Soda alum or chrome alum are similar combinatio 
■where the potassium has been replaced by the corresponding metals. 

Alumina. — An oxide of aluminum which occurs in the amorphous or crystaUin 
state as in corundum and bauxite. It is used in porcelain manufacture 

Amber. — A natural fossil resin found in Northern Europe. It is hard brittl 
of a yellow or orange color and at times transparent. When rubbed it becomes ele 
trically charged. It is to be distinguished from synthetic products such as th 
phenolic resins. 

Asbestos, — Amianthus. — -The common name given to a variety of fibrous min 
crals. The word is derived from the Greek meaning incombustible. Asbestos occur 
in different types varying in chemical composition. The most important is a var * e 
found in large quantities in Canada and known as Chrysotile. Asbestos is widel 
used as a heat insulator, for packing and for fireproof garments and fabrics 

Asphalt. — A black or brownish deposit of bituminous character found in yario 
countries. It occurs in the solid and plastic state. Chief among the deposits ar 
the ones in Trinidad and Bermudez. A high quality is found in Utah and _is name 
Gilsonite. Asphalts are also derived from petroleum by distillation. These ar 
termed as oil-asphalts. 

Bakelite.— The trade name (after its inventor) for a resin made from the ri 
action of phenol and formaldehyde. It may be produced in transparent clear v 
colored masses. When powdered and mixed with various filling materials it may u 
molded under beat and pressure to obtain numerous articles. It is strong, Jj a *" 
high polish, is a good electrical insulator and is resistant to water, alcohol, ana acias, 

Balsam of P 



ern.—A viscous, sticky resin obtained from a tree in Central. 

America. It comes deep brown or black in color, and has an aromatic odor. 



used in medicine and perfumery 

Bentonite. — A clay-like mineral consisting of hydrous aluminum silicate. 1 1 is 
of very fine grain size, capable of absorbing large amounts of water ana nut, ■ * j 
high plasticity. It is used in the manufacture of colloidal solutions. It is lounu 
Wyoming. 



xxxiv 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Bmwn . _ -Renzol _The chemical name given to a hydrocarbon derived from 
the SSn of coal tar. Benzene forms the basis of the aromatic compounds and 
Iht nSStap dves It is a good solvent and m admixtures with gasoline forms an 
Automotive motor fuel. To be distinguished from benzine. 

Rpn^ine A volatile fraction from the distillation of petroleum and lighter than 

gasoline It is composed of a mixture of different hydrocarbons. 

Rpnyoin —An aromatic resin derived from a tree in the East Indies. It is 
yeUowfsh brown in color and is used in medicine and as incense. 

Black TreacIe.^A viscid uncrystallizable syrup which drains from the sugar 
refiner's molds. Sometimes called sugar-house molasses. 

Bloodstone— A variety of chalcedony or quartz It occurs as an opaque or 
translucent mineral, bright or dark green in color and interspersed with small red 
spots. 

Bole.— A non plastic clay. The presence of iron oxide gives it a yellowish to 
brown color. 

R rnrl , e _The name given to the alloys composed of copper and tin in which 
these two metals are chemically combined. Zinc as well as other metals are often 
fdded To improve its casting qualities. Bronze is usually cast whole brass is usually 
drawn. 

Rnreimdv Pitch— The name given to a resin obtained from the Norway Spruce 
found Khe Vosges Mountains and in the Alps. It is also obtained from a variety 
S pine found in the United States. It is opaque yellowish brown and of a more or 
less P brittle nature. It looks like rosin, and in composition it » about the same con- 
taining more or less turpentine and emulsified water. 

Cnmohor— A white resin distilled from an evergreen found in China and Japan. 
It is trfnstocent, unctuous to the touch and volatile. It is used in the manufacture 
of celluloid, explosives and disinfectants. 

r* 1 u T*tMa p,,Wv>r The milky mice or latex obtained from incisions 

to water. 

Caramel.-A brown somewhat bitter substance obtained by heating sugar and 
used for coloring confectionery and beverages. 

septic. It is poisonous. 

Casein.-A protein (nitrogenous) substance f ound lr i mill : It * oM**g% 
skimmed milk by precipitation with rennet or acids, n*™™™^/^^ It 
formaldehyde. It is insoluble in water and alcohol but i ; attacked Dy 
is used in making molding materials, imitation ivory, pastes ana gi , 
dressings and sizes. Galalith is made from casein. 

Castile Soap.-A high grade of soap made P^gg ^Tt^o^T ) 
soda. It comes in white and green color depending on the shade 01 

Celluloid.-A synthetic material made by ^ treating "J^gg" J fa 3uble 
It is transparent, elastic and easily molded at about 100 C Celluloid 
in water but soluble in alcohol and other organic solvents. 

Ceresine.— When pure, it Is refined ozokerite (a natural mineral wax). Usua 
adulterated with paraffin wax. ^ 

Chalk.-A soft white or grayish form of calcium carbonate found m 
England and France. It is widely used in ™ P^X, fineness and 

rubber and crayons. It is graded commercially according to color, nn 

purity. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Chlorophyl.— The preen coloring matter of leaves, occurring as microscoTj 
granules distributed throughout the cells. It may be extracted with alcohol and eth 

Cocoa Butter. — A fat extracted from the cocoa-nibs. It is a yellowish white 
solid turning to yellow on ageing. It is used medicinally and in confectionery. It 
resists rancidity very well. 

Coconut Oil. — An oil obtained from the kernels of the coconut palm. It is a 
white solid at ordinary temperatures and is used in the manufacture of "soap and 
candles. 

Colophony. — The rosin remaining after distilling the turpentine from the exuda- 
tion of several varieties of pine tree found in Europe and North America. It is a 
reddish-brown translucent and easily fusible solid. Colophony or rosin as it is 
commonly called is used in varnishes, soluble oils, belt dressings and paint driers. 

Copal. — Fossil resins widely distributed throughout the tropics. Ranges in color 
from white through yellow, red and brown. Copals are soluble in alcohol and drying 
oils and are used for varnishes and enamels. 

Creosote. — The light colored oily liquid obtained by distilling coal tar and con- 
taining ortho, meta and para cresol. Its chief uses are as a wood preservative and 
a disinfectant. 

Dammar. — The resin obtained by tapping several species of trees found in Asia 
and in the East Indies. It varies from light transparent grades to black. Dammar 
is soluble in alcohol and turpentine and is used in high quality varnishes, lacquers and 
in sealing wax. 

Dextrin. — Synonymous with amylin and British gum. Dextrin is the general 
name for a group of compounds similar to starch. It 5s a white non-crystalline 
powder with neither taste nor odor. It is used as an adhesive for envelopes and 
postage stamps and as a filler for cloth. 

Eau de Cologne. — Originally an alcoholic infusion of various plants so named 
from the place of manufacture. It is now prepared by blending essential oils with 
alcohol and still holds a ranking place in perfumery. 

Elaterite. — An amorphous dark brown natural asphaltic bitumen. It ranges 
from a soft elastic to a hard brittle mass. It has a high fusing point and is of com- 
paratively little importance due to its occurrence in rather small amounts. 

Emery. — The name given to the natural occurring mixture of the mineral corun- 
dum, magnetite and others. It is very hard and is used as an abrasive both as a 
powder or as blocks or wheels. 

Ester Gum. — A gum prepared by combining glycerine and rosin with the aid of 
neat. It is less sticky and brittle than ordinary rosin and is largely used in the 
manufacture of spar varnishes. 

Feldspar. — The name given to a group of minerals found in a variety of colors 
and as alumino silicates of alkali metale and alkaline earths. They consist of a 
crystalline construction, quite hard and found in the United States and various parts 
of Northern Europe. 

Formalin. — A solution of 40 per cent concentration of formaldehyde. It has a 
Pungent odor and it is used as a disinfectant, preservative, and in the manufacture 
of synthetic Tesins. 

Fuller's Earth. — A hydrated compound of silica and alumina having a grayish 
brown color and a smooth greasy feel. It is used as a filtering material t°r vege- 
table, animal and mineral oils from which it removes the basic colors. 



Used also as 



a pigment filler. 

. Galbanum. -A gum resin from a plant native of Persia. It varies in badness, 
is more or less translucent, yellowish brown in color and of a bitter taste, usea m 
medicine. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNIN< 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Gas-Tar or Gas-Works Tar.— Coal tar produced as a byproduct in the retorts 
in the manufacture of illuminating gas, 

Gl ue> An adhesive made from gelatine obtained from animal hoofs and hides, 

from fish' heads, or from bones. Some glues are also made from blood or casein. 
The hardening of glue is due to the loss of water. 

Graphite. One of the several varieties of natural occurring carbon. It is found 

in two forms" both of which are good electrical and heat conductors. Graphite is 
used as a lubricant, in making crucibles, electrodes, and in the "lead" in lead pencils. 

Gum Ammoniac. A gum resin derived from an herb in Central Persia having 

an unpleasant odor and a reddish color. Used in medicine. 

Gum Arabic or Acacia.-— The gum obtained by tapping a species of tree found 
in Asia, Africa and the East Indies. It is used in making inks, as an adhesive and 
as a filling material in textiles. 

Gum Thus. Also frankincense. A resin from the Norway Spruce Fir. It is 

used as an incense in ointments and plasters. 

Gutta Percha. A gum obtained by boiling the drippings of several species of 

trees found in New Guinea, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula. When vulcanized it 
forms a very hard material. It is used mostly for insulating electric cables. 

Horn. The protruding growth of the heads of cattle and other animals. Horns 

are hollow and are cut by saws, soaked for long periods and pressed to shape by 
hydraulic presses. The chief use of horn is in making knife handles, buttons and 
the like. 

Hydraulic Cement. — A cement that sets or hardens when used under water. 
Varieties of these are Portland, puzzolan, and hydraulic lime. 

Iceland Moss. — A lichen growing abundantly in the mountainous regions of 
Europe. It has a bitter taste, and is used medicinally. 

Infusorial Earth or Diatomaceous Earth. — A hydrous opalescent form of silica 
the remains of aquatic microorganisms. It is absorbent, light in color and weight. 
Also called fossil flour, rotten stoue and kieselguhr. Used in making dynamite. 

Irish Moss or Carrageen. — A sea-weed growing in the Atlantic sea-coast. It 
is purplish in color and almost transparent. It is used for jellies and cattle food. 

Isinglass. — A very pure form of gelatine obtained from the bladders of fish. It 
is used in making adhesives. Transparent sheets of mica are also called isinglass. 

Jewellers' Rouge, — Colcothar. — A brownish red iron oxide obtained in the 
manufacture of fuming sulphuric acid. So called from its use as a polishing material. 

Kaolin.- — A natural aluminum silicate known commercially as Cornish clay. Its 
principal use is in the manufacture of fine porcelain which is almost pure kaolin. 
The cheaper grades are made with the addition of feldspar. It is a soft white 
powder insoluble in water, dilute acids or alkalies. It should be free from grit. Its 
cost is a few dollars per ton. 

Lanolin.- — -The purified fat of the wool of sheep, containing 25-30 per cent water. 
It is a yellowish white mass and is used as an ointment base. 

Lime. — The oxide of calcium, occurring in nature in combination with carbonic 
acid gas. It is obtained by heating limestone to drive off the carbon dioxide. Lime 
is white and is used for building, as a flux in steel making and as a gas absorbent. 
Also called quicklime. 

Litharge. — The monoxide of lead, yellow in color and made by heating the metal 
in a reverbatory furnace. When ground it is used as &■ pigment, in glass manufacture 
and in the glazing and fluxing of earthenware. 

Lithopone. — A white pigment consisting mostly of barium sulphate with ab? u * 
one third zinc sulphide and a small amount of zinc oxide. It is used in the making 
of paints and inks and as a fdler for rubber and oilcloth. 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Logwood. — The product of a leguminous tree native to Central America. It 
used in dying, the preparation of ink and in medicine. 

Lye.— The general name given to solutions of caustic alkalies. 

Malt. — A product made by arresting the germination of grain by the remo 
of water through the application of heat. It is used in brewing. 

Marseilles Soap.— See castile soap. 

Mastic. — A gum-resin exuded from a tree found in the Mediterranean countr 

It is used in varnishes, adhesives and chewing gum. 

Meerahaum. — A soft light colored hydrated magnesium silicate found in Asia 
Minor. It is used in making smoking pipes and holders. 

Oil of Mirbane. — Nitrobenzol used in perfumery as a cheap substitute for oil of 
bitter almonds, also as a solvent and in the manufacture of dyes. It is poisonous. 

Qlein. The glyecride of oleic acid and the fluid constituent of most fats and 

oils, more abundant in vegetable than in animal oils. 

Ox-Gall. When purified a yellowish-green soft solid or powder prepared from 

ox bile. 

Parchment. — A tough durable waterproof paper made by treating cellulose 

paper with sulphuric acid and then rinsing it in water. 

Paris Green. A double compound of copper arsenite and copper acetate used 

as a pigment. Called also Scheele's Green and Schweinfurth Green. Very poisonous. 

pitch. Pyrogenous residue varying from a viscous liquid to a brittle solid of 

dark color and fusible. Obtained chiefly from the destructive distillation of coal, 
bones, wood and various residues. 

Plaster of Paris. — A partially dehydrated calcium sulphate made by heating 
gypsum. It is used for making casts and in plasters and cements. 

Precipitated Chalk. — Pore calcium carbonate prepared by precipitation. Used 
in medicine. 

Pumice.— The porous volcanic glass so formed by very rapid cooling. Whea 
ground it is used as an abrasive and in the preparation of tracing cloth. 

Putty Powder.— Tin oxide in a crude form used in the manufacture of enamels, 
for grinding glass and for polishing. 

Pyroxylin. — A solution of nitrocellulose in ether, ethyl acetate and amy! acet 
It is used in the manufacture of artificial leather, celluloid, rayon, films, molded pa.ru> 
and lacquers. 

Quartz L variety of silica either colorless or colored such as to ?^J"i£ 

amethyst. It is used as an abrasive, in ceramics and for lenses. Pure ™sea q 
stands extreme changes in temperature without breaking. It does not arjsoro uii 
violet light. 

Quassia.— A bitter wood obtained from various trees native of the tropics. Used 

as a medicine. 

Quicklime.— The oxide of calcium manufactured by the calcination « f jj° esta,e ' ' 
On addition of water it slakens forming the hydrate of calcium or siaKea xim. . 

Red Lead.— The oxide of lead, red or orange-red in color. It is ™ ed aS a 
ment and has great covering and protective power. Called also m< 

Roman Cement-The product obtained by burning and grindhigsandsto^Jt 
contains calcium carbonate, silica and alumina. Although not as snon b «=> 
cement it sets much more quickly, 

Rosin.- — See Colophony. 



xxsvm 



USEFUL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE 
MATERIALS CALLED FOR IN THIS BOOK 



Sandarac. Also Austral inn pine-gum or white gum. It is obtained from a tree 

and used in varnishes. 

g oap The material obtained by treating a fat or oil with a solution of caustic. 

Sodium hydroxide yields a hard soap and potassium hydroxide gives a soft soap. 

Spanish Whiting or Chalk.— A variety of soapstone or talc found in Spain. 

Spermaceti. The white crystalline wax obtained from sperm oil. It does not 

yield glycerine when saponified.' At one time it was used in candles, but is now used 
as a high grade wax. 

Stearin. The glyceride of stearic acid occurring mainly in solid fats or tallows. 

Sweet Spirits of Nitre. — An alcoholic solution containing about As per cent ethyl 
nitrite. It is a clear mobile liquid, yellowish in color and of a fragrant odor. Used 
medicinally. 

Talcum. A hydrated magnesium silicate, greasy to the feel and occurring in 

plates or granular form. It varies in color from white to gray, green, brown and 
red. It is used as a fdler in glazing and in cosmetics. , 

Traumaticin. A solution containing about 15 per cent gutta percha in chloro- 
form. Used like collodion. 

Tripoli. A form of silica originating from the decomposition of chert or of 

limestone rich in silica. Often confused with tripolite which is diatomaceous earth. 
True tripoli contains no diatoms. It is used in detergents, for polishing and as a 
paint filler. 

Turpentine. The oil obtained by distillation of the oleo-resin derived from 

various species of pine tree. It is used in paints and varnishes, in the manufacture 
of rubber, perfume and artificial camphor. 

Umber. A paint pigment consisting of a brown siliceous earth, manganese 

oidde and hydrated iron oxides. Burnt umber made by heating umber is much 
redder in color. 

Venetian Red. — Hed iron oxide pigments varying in chemical composition. 
Chieiiy applied to the light red to distinguish it from the dark shades called 
Indian red. 

Venice Turpentine. — An exudation from the laTch, found in Europe and so 
named from the city whence it was shipped. Used in medicine. 

Water-Glass.— A water soluble sodium silicate having a glassy appearance when 
hard. It is used for coating wood and stone, in cements, glazing, as a filler in soap 
and for preserving eggs. 

White Lead. — Basic lead carbonate — A widely used paint pigment. 

White Wax. — A bleached and purified quality of beeswax. 

Wool Grease, Wool Wax or Wool Degras. — .The oily material present in the 
sheep's wool, technically a wax containing no glycerine or glycerides. It is extracted 
from the cut wool with alkali soap solution or with sodium carbonate. 

Wood Tar. — The bituminous product derived from the destructive distillation 
of wood, varying in properties with the source and quality of the wood used. 

Yellow Wax. — Common beeswax, so called from its color. When new it is light 
yellow darkening with age. It is bleached and called white wax. Used for polishes, 
candles and floor waxes. 





NOTE CONCERNING THE INDEXES 



Two very complete ready reference Indexes 
will be found in the back of this book. The 
second or Supplementary Index, refers to items 
in most recent development. In using these In- 
dexes, the Editors suggest that you consult 
every possible heading, as frequently a formula 
may be indexed under a very general classifica- 
tion instead of the particular one you are look- 
ing for. 



xxxlx 




ALSO CONSULT INDEX ON PAGES 881 AND 882 

INDEX 



.. .705 

Acid-proof Alloy ■ ^ 

Cement 10 

Corks 874 

Glass 0 

Acid-proofing ...^ 

Arid-proof lat-tes- 



Lining 



10 



Acid-prcut rw«- 

Putty - 9 

Table Top 

Acid Receptacles, 

Acifciing; Paint 400 

Acids, Soldering bSb 

Add Stains Removed ....18- 

Test for Gold -. .«8» 

for Vinegar . .... . 

Acomte-Monkshood Poison. 9i 

A ^elt i0 Pa S VeV "for* incr'ea^ 

ing ;V on 

Adhesive Paste 80 

Adhesivcs V"iii? 

Adhesive Plaster, to .Re- 
'move -Without Pain.. 10 

Adulterants in Foods -34a 

Adulteration of Linseed 

Oil «5 

of Wax "8 

Adurol Developer oil 

Affixing Labels to Glass . . 42 
Agar Agar Paste . . .... d 1 

Agate, Buttons of Artificial 41 

Agate (Imitation) 3™ 

Age of Eggs - 

Aging of Silk v V 

Agricultural Sources of In- 
dustrial Alcohol AG 8 

Air Bath : ** 

Bubbles in Gelatine 

Exclusion of 5 ^J 

Air-purifying 44 

Albata Metal 63 

Albumen "4 

in Urine, Detection of - - 44 
Paste 37 



Alloy, Acid-proof 62 

for Caliper and Gage-rod 

Castings 80 

Watch Pinion Sockets. . .736 

Lipowitz's 61 

Moussets' 70 

Alloys ■ 47 

Copper, Silver, Cadmium 70 
For'Casting Coins, etc. . . 62 

for Cementiug Glass 52 

for Drawing Colors on 

Steel 80 

for Metal Foil ......... .474 

for Small Casting Molds. 80 

having a Density 48 

Silver, Nickel, Zinc 78 

Tin 

Unclassified • 80 

Almond Blossom Perfum- 
ery 518 

Cold Cream 235 

Extracts ^'.VI "Si* 

Powders for the Toilet. .242 

Altars, to Clean l|» 

Alum - 

Baking Powder "J 

Bath lf„ 

Ointment r'--W'"a 

Process of Water Purifi- 
cation 34 ° 

Aluminum Alloys . ■ . .. ■ - ■ *° 
Electrical Conductivity 

of 

Aluminum-brass •<••••■■* *«_ 
Aluminum Bronze ....50, oj< 

Castings ■ 1 go 

Aluminum-Copper 

Aluminum Gilding 6 ™ 

iSinVFiuid-for-::::::324 

How to Color ■ f 

Lacquer for * 0? 

Paper V-rV'ssi 

Plating 5n ] So 



50 
50 



Alcohol 44 

Absolute •• 45 

Defined 667 

Deodorized 45, 514 

Dilution of 45, 703 

in Beer 4a 

Manufacture 607, 071 

Solid 45 

Tests for Absolute 45 

Ale « 

Ginger I 07 

Alfenide Metal DJ 

Alkali Blue and Nicholson's 

Blue Dye 207 

Alkalis and Their Salts 

Poison 93 

Alkaline Glycerine of Thy- 
mol 10° 

Alkaloids, Antidotes to .--10? 
Alkermes Cordial 763 



Polishes • • 50 75 

Aluminum-Silver - ■ ■ ■ ■ • 

Aluminum Solders g0 

Aluminum-Tin ... — m 

Aluminum, t0 ^ le f£ * -nd 
Toughness, Density ana ^ 

Tenacity 50 

Aluminum Varnish _ 83 

Working of Sue^c 5Q 

Aluminum-Zinc -^v^ng 
Amalgam for ^enie" gQ 

Glass, etc 65 

for Plaster . oo 
for Silvering Glass 
for the Rubber of iww- Q(j 

trie Machines m 

Gold Plating 85 

Amalgams 72 

for Mirrors 90 

Amber 26 

Cements ...718 

Varnish .02a 
Ambrosia Powder .... u 8 
American Champagne 

Factory Cheese ■ 110 

Lemonade '"com- n 

S fa ft ny'KYlSp ft edCream 2 43 



Amethyst (Imitation) ....370 

Amidol Developer 528 

Ammon-carbonite 331 

Ammonia 91 

for Fixing Prints 536 

Household 81 

Poison 98 

Violet Color for 91 

Water 245, 519 

Perfumed 01 

Anchovies, Essence of — 98 

Anchovy Paste — ••• 98 

Preparations 98 

Sauce, Extemporaneous . Of 

Angostura Bitters 765 

Anise Cordial 76 i 

Aniline 26J 

Black Dye 2S°> 2Ti 

Substitutes 271 

Black Lake Dye 27 

Blue Dye **) 

Green Dye for Wool 26 

for Silk ■ ■ ■ • 26! 

in Pigments, Tests for . .560 

Scarlet Dye 271 

Stains, to Remove 183 

Yellow Dye 271 

Animals, F 1 y Protection 

for — «; 

Ankara " kit 

Annealing Bronze 

Anodynes • • • ■ * • - 2q 

Ansco Platinum Paper . . . .529 
Ant Destroyers 
Anti-corrosive or Asiatic^ 

Antidoles for Beilado'nna.: 9| 
for Poisons g7 

Metal ••••*■:.■'• .868 

Baths ...566 
Antique Bronzes 639 

Silver 640 

Imitation or ■•■;•*'• 98 

Paper for Needles ■•; 62 5 



Bromine 



Soto 



Pastes 
Antiseptic 

tion 

Oil of Cinnamon 
Paste (Poison) .- 

Pencils 

powders ...644 

laonVc^oring-for ..ig 
Tooth Powder 



100 
.780 
.467 
.100 
99 
99 
08 



INDEX 



lMseptles 93 

for C:\gcd Birds 720 

Mouth 90 

its. To Prevent 101 

aollinuris Lemonade ....110 

Tater 740 

jple Extract 312 

Syrup 812 

jplleations for Prickly 

Heat .....808 

If Barium Amalgams ... 80 
>f Bismuth Amalgams ... 88 
af Cadmium Amalgams. . 87 
of Copper Amalgams ... 87 

of Gold Amalgams 80 

of Lead Amalgams 83 

of M an.gan es e Amal- 



gams 



87 



Applications of Potassium 

Amalgams • 86 

of Silver Amalgams S8 

of Sodium Amalgams ... 80 
of Strontium Amalgams. 80 

of Tin Amalgams 87 

of Zinc Amalgams 87 

Applying Deealcomania 

Pictures .250 

Apricot Extract 312 

Aquarium Putty 608 

Argentan 69 

Arguzoid 70 

Armenian Cement 20 

Arms, Oil for 460 

Arnica Salve 486 

Aromatic Cod-Liver Oil... 482 

Cotton 246 

Rhubarb Remedy ISO 

Vinegar 735 

Arsenic Alloys 63, 75 

Arsenic Poison 98, 614 

Art Bronzes ...57, 550 

of Lacquering , . . . 437 

Artificial Aging of Fabrics. C39 

Beeswax 754 

Butter 142 

Ciders iai 

Coloring of Flowers 340 

Egg Oil 281 

Fertilizers for Pot Plants 338 

Flowers, Dyes for 272 

Flower Fertilizer 337 

Horn 3 9(3 

Leather 447 

Marbles !!o9B 

Rubber ....019 

"Rubbered" Silk 

Slate C43 

Violet Perfumery sis 

Water 73 9 

Asbestos Cement '30 

Fabric ' 343 

Asphalt and Pitch 33 

as Ingredient of Rubber. 619 

in Painting . , . . 71 g 

Varnishes ". ! ' *718 

Assaying of Gold 381 

Asthma Cures 101 

Fumigating Powders ."..'lOl 

in Canaries 795 

Papers """101 

Astringents 793 

Wash for Flahby'skin/234 
Atomic Weights 75a 
Atomizer Liquid for ' Sick 

Rooms 2Qi 

Attaching Enamel Letters 

to Glass i9 

by Cement 1T 

Atropine, Antidote to .. "102 

Aqua Aromatica 102 

Fortis for the Touch- 
stone ... 00 1 

:io! 



Aquarium Cements 81 

Automobile Enamel .. . .. .590 

Automobile Engines, Cool- 
ing 868 

Autcfmobile Fire Ex- 
tinguisher ■ ■ • ■ 340 

Automobile Headlights 

Frosted 864 

Automobile Polishes 590 

Automobiles, Anti-freezing 

Solution 363 

Was Similar to Simon iz 102 

B 

Babbitt-Metals 50 

Baking Powders 102 

Balance Spring -733 

Baldness 392 

Balkan Paste 83 

Ball Blue 281, 444 

Bali-Room Floor Powder.. 34-5 

Balsam, Birch ' 103 

of Sulphur 3S0 

Spray Solution 103 

Balsam, Stains, to Re- 
move 194 

Wild-cherry 103 

Balsams ...102 

Balsamic Cough Syrup ... .211 
Banana Bronzing Solution. 439 

Cream 115 

Extract For Painting . . 108 

Syrup 312 

Banjo Sour 1)0 

Barbers' Itch 486 

Powder 243 

Barium Amalgams 8G 

Poison 615 

Barometers (Paper) 402 

Bath, Air 44 

Metal 03 

Powder 242 

Tablets, Effervescent ...103 
Tonic for Flabby Flesh. 103 

Bath tub Enamel 721 

Faint 501 

Batteries, Solution for 104 

Basis for Effervescent 

Salts 627 

Baudoin Metal 63 

Bavaroise au Cognac 118 

Bay Rum 101, 513 

Bear Fat 333 

Bearing Lubricant 401 

Metal 50 

Beauty Preparations. 225, 702 

Water 244 

Bedbug Destroyers 420 

Beechwood Furniture 

_ Polish 5B3 

Beef and Iron 771 

Iron, and Wine lot 

Beef-marrow Pomade 227 

Beef Peptonoids 509 

Preservatives ggo 

' rci1 ,112 

Beer n8 

Brewing 133 

Lemon 1(l8 

Restoration of Spoiled! .'105 

Spruce 11B 

Treacle 

Weiss 

Beers, Alcohol in , 45 

Beetle Powder ... " '405 
Bees, Foul Brood in. . " "105 
Beeswax, Artificial . . 754 
Belladonna, Antidotes for'. 93 

Bell Metal r, 

Belt Cement « 

Glue ;; "g 

Lubricant , \\ \ ; 4 g 2 



Belt, Pastes for Increaslnt- 

Adliesion s ,.„ 

Benedictine iy, 5 

Bengal Lights \\ ™o 

Bent Glass ^ 

Benzine ^1 

Cleaning with iS® 

Purification of 

Non-Explcsivo 
Benzoic Acid, Detection 

in Food' \H 
Benzole-acid Pastilles ??, 
Benzoin-Glycerine Soap""nti 

Benzoparal "\m 

Berge's Blasting Powder" "ml 

Beverages 

Yellow Coloring for "ni 

Bibra Alloy I? 

Bicycle Dipping Varnish "710 
Bicycle-tire Cement ... " 
Bicycle Varnishes .,. "710 
Bicycles, Black Paint for"4n£ 
Biderv Metal ... it 

Billiard Balis .A&'ul 

Birch Balsam 103 

Birch-Bud Water . 519 

Birch Water 

Bird Diseases, Remedies 723 

Foods 120", '729 

Bird Lime . , , 453 

Paste , !i4 5 

Tonic '720 

Birds, Antiseptic W a s h 

for 729 

Constipation in 729 

Diarrhoea in 729 

Biscuit, Dog 265 

Bismarck Brown Dye .... .267 

Bismuth . 49 

Alloys 53 

Amalgams, Applications 

Of 88 

Bronze 70 

Purification of 380 

to Purify 380 

Biting Off Red-hot Iron... 612 
Bitter Almond Oil Poison. 93 

Bitters 763 

Blackberry Cholera Mix- 
ture ISO 

Cordial 763 

Blackboard Paint and Var- 
nish 4S9 

Varnish 720 

Black Color on Brass 129 

Dye for Tanned Leather. 447 

on Cotton 266 

on Wool, for Mixtures.267 

Blackening Iron ■ 

"Black Eve" Lotion 333 

Black Finish for Brass . ■ .1^ 

Grease Paints 

Hair Dve without Silver. 399 

Blackhead Remedies 

Blacking Copper J»4 

for Harness *5 

for Shoes 5oS 

Stove 0 

Black Japanese Varnish- •• 71 * 
Lake Dyes for wall- 
paper • fct9 

Marble, Imitation 

Marking Inks .... ■ ■ „* 
Paint for Polished Iron.4»-> 

Pa-HH 8, "".'ooT 
Putty 40 s 

Ruling Ink .- — ' fi ot 

Sheet Rust Preventive .-^ 

Starch • • 355 

Straw Hat Varnish ■■•■ n g 

Varnish * 4 *v'm,' 150 

Wash for Casting Molds. i J 



INDEX 



861 



Blanket ff « 3SU 

BUl ^^ongc Trick 

BS r fs d Feop 

Blenches, Uo ne _ 120 
Bleaclnng- - { ^ ■ * fathers ..335 
and Coioriuo 121 

Blue ct-pn'mina:' .2*5 
Cotton by fateamiub ' _ _ 245 

Cotton ' 131 335 

Feathers 1 120 

Linen . \ .459 

0f H ydWen Peroxide -.24, 
JSoto^pMc^'Prints^^ 

c .X Tllite //////AVo'.Vso 

Ik* Salves" .231, 643 

£ tfpWraphs'::::::^ 3 

Solutions for Laundry. .446 

Water G7a 

Sponges 1SQ 

¥a r &s*andFat 3 *:::'.:^4 

Bleeding Local ^ 

Blight Remedies • ■ ^ 

B isters, for Horses T23 

Block for Soldering ■■••V C67 
Hollow Concrete Build-^ 

ing. 694 

Machines 4,VLl 

Blocks Poured from Wet 

Concrete 

Blood-red Brick Stain 

Blotting Paper 

Blue, Ball 

Blue-black Ink 

Patina 

Blue Bronze 



83U 

611 

Bid 



from 

6B4 

.16G 
.503 
.281 I 
.414 
.585 
.138 

Dye"for Hosiery . . . . • ■ -368 
from Green at Night ...121 

Indelible Ink 400 

Blueprint Inks 40 ,f 

Marking Fluid \j\ 

Paper Making * 

Blueprints, to Change 121 

to Turn Brown 5 j* 

Waterproofing ]*\ 

Blue Ruling Ink 403 

Sanitary Powder 20J 

Vitriol Poison »*• 

Bluing 

Compounds 443 

Of Steel G82 

Bluish-black Lake Dye 278 

Bluish Pink Dye on Cotton 

Textile 270 

Board-sizing ■ 88 

Boiled Oil 484 

Boiler Compounds I 21 

Plates, Protecting from 

Scales 122 

Pressure I™ 3 

Scales, Prevention of . . -122 
Boiling the Linseed Oil ...400 

Boil Remedy I 21 

Bone Black 123 

Bleaches 430 

Fat 833 

Fertilizers 83 8 

or Ivory Black 1 33 

Uniting Glass with 1" 

Bones, A Test for Broken. 121 
Treatment of, in Manu- 

■ factoring Glue 1° 

Bookbinders 7 Varnish 720 

Book Disinfectant 2«3 

How to Open 125 



Bookworms 42 S 

Books, their Preservation A2 \ 

to Remove Marks from. 180 
Boot Dressings ....031 

Lubricant 460 

Boot-top Liquid 032 

Boots, Waterproofing 750 

Borated Apple Blossom 
Powder 243 

Talcum 510 

Borax in Food 350 

for Sprinkling 125 

Soap Powder G50 

Boric Acid, Detection cf...S50 

Borotonic 258 

Bottling Sweet Cider 181 

Bottle-cap Lacquer 440 

Bottle-Capping Mixtures . .120 

Bottle Cleaners 210 

Deodorizer 1 127 

Stoppers 700 

Varnish 720 

Wax 553 

Bottles 128 

White Glass for 373 

Bouillon 113 

Chicken 112 

Clam 11 3 

Hot Egg 11 J 

Tomato Extract 212 

Bowls of Fire Trick 611 

Bos Glue • " 

Bradley Platinum Paper... 520 

"Braga" .- 11 J 

Bran, Sawdust m ••••■•■•ir.o 
Brandy, Artificial French. 7b8 
and Brandy Bitters ....762 

Brass ,. }" 

* ijmTiTB for i»" 



Brick Walls, to Clean 1D7 

to Renovate 190 

Waterproofing 134 

Bricks 151 

Glaze for 377 

of Sand-lime . .089 

Polish for 600 

Brie, Cheese 170 

Brightening Pickle 4B9 

Bright lied Rouge 229 

Briihantine ,890 

Floricmn 483 

Brimstone (Burning) 611 

Bristol Brass (Prince's 

Metal) 53 

Britannia Metal 55 

to Clean 201 

Silver-plating 587 

British Champagne 118 

Oil 484 

Brocchieri's Styptic 701 

Brocq's Pomade for Itch- 
ing 22S 

Broken Bones, A Test for:124 

Bromine, Antiseptic 100 

Bromoform I s * 

Rum 

Bronze, Aluminum •>» 

Annealing *>» 

Articles, Polish for 591 

Casting 150 

Cleaning 202, 205 

Coloring ld ° 



Dye 



.272 



for Brass ifjj 

Gilding ;: ;;l 3 t 5 



Leather . 
Lettering 



.456 
58 



A Bronze for 
Brass and Bronze Protec- 
tive Paint ....... -....f f, 

ffl« 8 !^.?!:l Bronze Powde™ ....MW 



Machine "° 

Phosphor J™ 

Polishes »J 

Powder, Liquid for 507 



S23 

17 

570 
130 



Black Color --- -- 

Black Finish for .-1" 

Bronzing ™? 

Coloring .....■•■■•• 1M ' 4 ™ 

Colors for Polished 1*1 

Etching Bath for 

Fluid for 
Fastening Porcelain to 

Gilding 

Graining of . . . ■ • • ■ ;* n 53 
Brass-Iron (Aich's Metal). Si 
Brass Parts, Improved ...13- 

Pickle for gofl 

Platinizing 500 

Polishes 150 

Sand Holes in £ 5T 

Solders ■ 5i 

to Cast Yellow 

Tombac Color on }f 

Unpolished Coloring ....123 
Varnishes Imitating Gold 7.5 
Brassing,,. ■ .' .531 



Lacquers 



Zinc, Steel, 
Brassware, Lorn «*-- 440 

for ' ...266 
Bread, Dog - • • • • Remedies 
Breath, Fetid, «« nic 133 

for . 258, 707 

Perfumes -■ >i83 u 

Brewers* Yeast . • — ^ers' 
Brick ana 1C<1 

SSf&SBS"^ " :: i8 

Colors • '','\i'LLa"'\ 1*7 

Brickmakers' Notes ...ooo 
Brick Polishes ' n&i l9(J 

Stair 



Preparations „ 05 
Bronze, Renovation of ...^ 

Silicon •• C1 

Steel ! " '1 37 

Substitutes • • •* l at 

Tincture 135 ' "{ 

to Renovate * . 

Varnishes '| 5 

Bronzes 57 

Art ;;!!'. 138 
Pickle for g7 

Statuary 5BG 

Bronzing 'i"\rii- 
and Patinizing ° f ^™ 136 

Fn -raved Ornaments" ...If 
general Directions for ..135 

Liquid !..5Q7 

Metals ** .,.571 

of Brass ggn 

of Gas Fixtures 

Of Wood 1£ 7 

of zino . .... ; . ,439 

Solutions for Fwnts . . 
with Soluble Glass 
Brooches, vmt0 °™* 1 1 °S51 

Brown Dye for Cotton. . 

for Silk ;...267 

for Wool .,..267 

and SilK • goo 

Hair Dye 583 

Browning of Steel >4U 

Brown Ink .,.,489 

Ointment . .■ ■■ • ' ' _..is9 
Oxidation on Bronze - 

Shoo » ressi ?^,^tibn ' . •«» 
Bro\vnstone. Imitation 

Brown Tints ;,...72« 

Varnish 




INDEX 



nette or Rachelle Pow- 
der 242 

rushes 140 

Brush less Shaving 1 Cream. .140 

Bubbles 141 

in Gelatine 370 

Buff" Terra, Cotta Slip 100 

Wheels, Rouge for 018 

Bug Killers 420 

Building Blocks, Concrete. 091 

Bunions 224 

Burning Banana Trick ...103 

Brimstone 011 

Sealing Wax 01 1 

Burns 480 

Carbolic Acid 147 

Mixture for 143 

Remedy 141 

Steel, to Restore Gt><3 

Bust Reducer 015 

Butter 1^2, 351 

Artificial, Tests for 854 

Color 142, 359 

Buttermilk, Artificial 143 

Buttons of Artificial Agate 44 
Flatine for 80 



c 

Cadmium Alloy, about the 
Hardness of Zinc .... 77 

Alloy3 01, 64 

with Gold, Silver, and 

Copper 02 

Amalgams, Applications 

of 87 

Calcium Carbide 144 

Sulphide (Luminous) ..404 

Callous Spots on Feet 144 

Camera, Renovating a ... 553 

mpchello 117 

mphor for Cholera 180 

iphorated and Carbo- 

lated Powders 252 

Cold Cream 220 

Ice 145 

Pomade 145 

Preparations 144 

Camphorated Substitutes in 
the Preparation of 

Celluloid 157 

Canary-Bird P'ood 720 

Paste ..145 

inary Birds, Their Dis- 
eases 720 

ancrete , . \ " ggg 

Candles '145 

Coloring 1 45,' 140 

Fumigating 3G5 

Transparent 1 45 

Candy 21 (i 

Colors and Flavors 218 

Candy Kisses 140 

Orange Drops '.210 

Canned Vegetables a 52 

Canning gpg 

without Sugar .."!""!! 603 
Canthandes and Modern 
Potato Bug Poison ... 94 

Pomade gg 2 

Can Varnish ' ' * * '720 

Canvas Waterproofing . . . "742 

Caoutchouc [jig 

Solution for Paints '.710 

opacities of Utensils 703 

Capsule Varnish 720 

Capping Mixtures for 

Carame s 143, 210 

Caramel in Food 35c 

12-Carat 4.9 R 

lVCarat Gold V.'. Al 

18-Carat Gold for Rings ..433 



22-Carat Solder 433 

1 Carats, to Find the Num- 
ber of 482 

Carbolic Acid 147 

Carbolic-acid Burns 147 

Decolorization of 147 

Disguising Odor of 147 

Carbolic Powder 263 

Soap 04.7 

Carbolineum 497 

Carbonated Pineapple 

Champagne 118 

Carbon Ink 403 

Paper 503 

Printing 531 

Process in Photography. 531 

Carbuncle Remedies ..121 

Cardboard or Leather Glue" 15 

Waterproofing 751 

Cards (Playing), to Clean. 209 
Care of Refrigerators .,..401 
Carmelite Balm Water ...519 

Carmine 403 

Lake Dye for Wall 

Paper 278 

Carnation Lake Dye 277 

Carpet Preservation 399 

Soap ....644 

Carpets, How to Preserve. 399 
Carriage-top Dressing ....448 

Carron Oil : ..242 

Case Hardening ... 684 

Casein 34, 148 

Albumen, and Glue .... 34 

Cements -20 

Massage Cream 233 

Paste 38 

Varnish 34 

Cashmere Perfumery 516 

Casket Trimmings 150 

Casks 140 

Watertight 149 

Cassius, Purple of 383 

Cast Brass 53 

Cast-brass Work, Sand 

Holes in 150 

Castile Soap, to Cut 644 

Casting ue 

Copper 63 

in Wax 755 

Molds, Alloys for 80 

of Soft Metal Castings. .151 
Castings, Making in Alumi- 
num si 

Castings Out of Various 

Metals 149 

to Soften Iron 427 

Cast-iron Soldering .660 

Castor Oil 153 

Castor-oil Chocolate 

Lozengas 354 

Castor Oil, How to Take.. 154 

Tasteless 153 

Casts from Wax Models .".755 
(Plaster), Preservation 

of - -. ■ 595 

Repairing of Broken ... 26 

Catatypy I54 

Cat Diseases and Remedies 732 
Caterpillar Destroyers . 423 

Catgut 155 

Sutures, Preparation of, 155 

Catsup, Adulterated 353 

Cattle Dips and Applica- 
tions 

Caustic Potash Poison',* 9*8- 04 

Ceiling Cleaners 400 

Celery Clam Punch 112 

Compound 155 

Cellars, Waterproof . 400 

Cellophane Adhesive 155 

Cells, Solutions and Fillers 
for Battery 104 



Celluloid 

Cements and Glues ""' 1% 

Glue for " xl 

Lacquer " At 

of Reduced Inuamma"- 
bllity lsa 

in 

Cement eg™ 

Armenian '. '. . . [ 20 

Asbestos ni 

Cheap and Excellent ' ". " 3n 

Colors " es8 

Diamond Glass .... o a 

for Belts ' " jj, 

for Chemical Apparatus* ' 31 
for Cracks in Stovesioa 36h 

for Film le ° 

for General Use 31 

for Glass 21, 25, 28 

for Iron and Marble 17 

for Ivory \ 3 j 

for Leather and Iron"' 25 

for Metals 21" 25 

for Metal on Hard Rub"- 

ber 22 

for Pallet Stones .. 'lea 

for Pasteboard and Paper 21 

for Patching Boots 23 

for Pipe Joints 102. 

for Porcelain Letters ... 19 

for Sandstones 17 

, for Steam and Water 

Pipes ,.iei 

for Watch lid 20 

forWaterpipe 162 

Hydraulic 33 

Cementing Celluloid and 
Hard-rubber Articles.. 18 

Cement Jewelers 20 

Mordant for 479 

on Marble Slabs ia 

Paints for 409 

Parisian 30 

Protection of, Against 

Acid 9 

Rubber for Cloth 24 

to Paint Over Fresh 409 

Transparent for Glass . . 28 

Strong 30, 32 

Universal 81 

Work, Protection for ..162 

Cements 16, 161 

Amber 28 

Aquarium 31 

Casein 20 

Celluloid -. 17 

for Attaching Letters on 

Glass ■ is 

for Fastening Porcelain 

to Metal 25 

for li on 24 

for Leather .22, 23 

for Metals 24 

Waterproofing "65 

for Rubber ■ 2» 

for Stone '0 

for Tires 33 

for Wntcr-glass 79 

Meerschaum ^0 

Sign-letters , - - ^ 

Silicate of Oxychloride. . 35 

Ceramics l^ 1 

Ch:iin of Fire 61 f 

Chains (Watch), to Clean. 20 S 

Chalk for Tailors I 6 * 

Chamois Skin, to Clean 

Champagne 11 r 

Cider "I 

Chapped Skin ^3 

Cbnpphie Cream l %' 

Charta Sinapis 48U 

Chartreuse 7?« 

Cheddar Cheese 170 



INDEX 



863 



eese . • 

cSSSi f APP^atus, 

meiit for 

Gardens 

Reagents 



, ...174 

35B 

for. 474 

Co 

3X 

368 

349 

103 



a - err „ Balsam ;^ 

Cordial . ..112 

Chewing Uinaj J7g 
Cheshire tneese 



Chestnut 



Brown Dye for 



Ha 
Chicken 



Straw Bonnets 207 

air Dye ■ • • 112 



Chicken-cooP 

Chicken Uibeaseb obo 



353 
.486 
.265 
205 



.46 

. a 

.179 

.111 

.154 
.312 
.114 
.111 



1 



Chicory, Tests for 

SSSnf Doses 'for-:::: 

Karen's Tooth Powder...,. 

CMna 

pomade „„. 

Repairing 

Riveting li Jt 

Silver Alloy 

to Toughen 

Chinese Toot" Paste 257 

Chlorides, Piatt .a « *i* wi 
Qiloriding Mineral Lubri 

eating Oils 

Chlorine-proofing 

Chocolate 

and Milk 

Castor-oil Lozenges 

Extracts 

Frapp 6 

Hot 

Soda Water J« 

Cholera Remedies "J 

Chowchow -•• v 

Chrome Black Dye for 

■Wool 207 

Chromium Plating 790 

Chromo Making 180 

Cider • \m 

Preservative * , 

Vinegar 735 

Cigarettes, Asthma 101 

Cigar Flavoring 183 

Sizes and Colors 182 

Spots 183 

Cigars 182 

Cinnamon Essence 812 

Oil as an Antiseptic . . . .100 
or Brown Dye for Cotton 

and Silk 28 7 

Cinchona 771 

Pomade 392 

Citrate of Magnesium ....464 

Clam Bouillon H3 

Claret Lemonade 11° 

Punch 110. II 2 

Clarification of Gelatin and 

Glue 3 70 

Clarifying I 84 

Muddy Water 741 

Gay 33, 184 

Clay for Complexion 180 

Claying Mixture for 

Forges 184 

Clean "Bronze 202 

Cleaner, Universal 209 

Cleaning Linoleum »" 

Marble 106 

■Polished Woodwork 104 

Brass on Clock ...206 

Bronze Objects 205 

Clocks 207 1 

Copper 200 

Copper Sinks ..202- 



Cleaning Electro-plate 

Goods 205 

Funnels and Measures. ,204 
Gilded Work on Altars. 185 

Gilded Articles iss 

Gilded Bronzes 205 

Gilt Bronze "Ware 201 

Glass, Paste for ....... .208 

Inferior Gold Articles ..207 

Lamp Globes 209 

Laaprer Chairs 210 

Marble Furniture, etc... 107 
Methods and Processes. .209 
of Copperplate Engrav- 
ings 300 

of Statuettes and Plaster 

Objects 504 

of Walls, Ceilings, and 

Paper 190, 897 

Oil Stains on Wall 

Paper 100 

Optical Lenses 208 

Paint Brushes 140 

Painted and Varnished 

Surfaces 194 

Painted Doors, Walls, 

etc t 90 

Pearls ...208 

Preparations, 

145, 184, 397, 590, 844 
Preparation for Glass 
with Metal Decora- 
tions 208 

Pewter Articles 205 

Powder ■ }%* 

Skins and Leather 188 

Silver-plated Ware 200 

Terra Cotta, i?l 

Toilets 

Tracings 

Varnish Brushes 



Cocoa Mint . 115 

Sy^P ".112 

Cocoas 112 

Cod Liver Oil and Its 

Emulsion 4,82- 

Coffee .8 53 

Cocktail .114 

Cordial 753 

Cream Soda 113 

Essence 814 

Extracts 313 

for the Soda Fountain. .111 

Frappfi .,..114 

Hot 111 

Iced 114 

Nogg 114, 115 

Substitutes for .210 

Syrups 318 

Coil Spring 68S 

Springs, to Temper 68S 

Coin Cleaning 200 

Counterfeit, to Detect. . .246 
Coins, Impressions of ,..".407 

Matrix for 487 

Colas 728 

Cold and Cough Mixtures. 2 11 

Chemical Gilding 577 

Cream 225 

Enameling 721 

Soldering 665 

Varnish 54 3 

Colie in Cattle : -729 

CoUapsible Tubes, Skin 

Cream 239 

Tooth Paste for 257 

Collodion 212 

Cologne .. 514 

for Headaches « 94 



194 

141 



Fumigat- 



.535 
.101 



Wall Paper . ... .......... -"I 

Whitewashed Walls 19U 

Window Panes * m 

Cleansing Fluids * 4I§ 

Clearing Baths . 
Cleary's Asthma 
ing Powder , 

Cliche Metal Jl 

Clock-bell Repairing J« 

Clock Cleaning 

Clock-dial Lettering 
Cock Hands, to Reblack..738 
Clockmakers' Cleaning Pro- 

ccsse , s " 43 2 
Clock Oil 738 

era 191 



Cleaners 



Clothes-Cleanins Fluids ...MJ 

to Iron, Gluing 7 J« 

Waterproofing , , 0!) 

ClXs fo P r r^X g MirrorV4?7 
Clouding of Mouth Mirror ^ 

Cloudless Ca ^ m Sne^".f.51G 
Clove Pink Perfumery - ^ 484 

Coal Oil 62 g 

Coal, to Save . . . '.01 2 

Coals, to Eat Burning • 
Coating for Ba U« ° oms • >4B0 

for Damp Walls m 

for Name P^ '-■ ith 
Metallic Surfaces g77 

asr^r °vr powder o4 



CochtoeaTlBsect Remedy 



.422 



Waters -- 794 

Coloration of Copper and 
Brass with Cupric 

Selenite .......563 

Colored Alloys for Alumi- 

num 

Celluloid If 

Fireproofing 

Fires 591 

Floor Polishes 

Gilding "Vfi5 *871 

Glass 165 ' eg 

Gold Alloys --. 03 

Hygroscopes 414 

Inks ' 439 

Lacquer .... m ■ 

Marking Inks .... - • • • • * „ 
People's Recipes ...393, gg 

Kings on MeUl . • m 

Sand ,. .043 

Skin Bleach ■■•••*•;" inR 
Coloring Benedine Gwen.-WJ 

Brass, •■•a-- V,;i'f 0 r the 
Ceresme Candles ior ^ 

Christmas Tree 4gl 

Common Gold • 47S 

Copper . .- • • - • - • ■ ■ v ' " and 
Electric-bght Bums ^ sn 

Globes ' 129 

Fluid for Brass 0 

Gold Jewelry .US 
Incandescent Lamps ...^ 

Matter In Fats m g 08 

Metals l28i 570 

of Brass . „..S6S 
of Modeling Plaster 5U 

perfumes " " " . . .640 

Silver '....644 

ggfcj* Varnisbes;..;.^ 

Colorings for Jew 4SJ 

Work 



INDEX 



Iron 



r Enamel 721 

holography 548 

Sins, for Wood 782 

or Stamps for Hough 

Paper ..411 

esting 559 

rs 200 

d Sizes of Cigars ....182 

r Confectionery 218 

or Paints 655 

for Polished Brass 127 

for Pomade 228 

for.^vrups 702 

Fusible Enamel 300 

Combined Alum and Hypo 

Bath 535 

Toning and Fixing Baths 542 
Comfortable, Washing 1 ...399 
Commercinl Enameling ...290 

Formaldehyde 862 

Mucilage <3 

Common Silver for Chains. 43 1 

Silver Solder 434 

Compacts .794 

imposition Files 339 

for Cleaning Copper, 
Nickel, and other 

Metals 203 

for Linoleum, Oilcloth, 

etc. 450 

for Writing on Glass ...370 
of Various Hard Solders 663 
"mpositions for Ships' 

Bottoms 498 

mpost for Indoor Plants. 337 
nipound for Cleaning 

Brass 203 

Salicylntcd Collodion 

Corn Cure £24 

Solution of Thymol 100 

ncentrated Lye Poison. . B3 

nerete ..689 

Blocks, Properties of... 605 

Tamping of 695 

nerete Block Systems. . ,094 

Building Block 601 

Mixers 093 

ndimental Sauces 353 

ndiments 212 

Tests for Adulterated ..349 

ndition Powders 729 

for Cattle ,729 

Conductivity of Aluminum 

Alloys 43 

onfectionery 140, 21 G 

Colors 218 

Constipation in Birds ....729 
ntracted Hoof or Sore 

Feet in Cattle 730 

onversion of Metric into 

English Measure 730 

Cooling Screen gio 

aoking Vessels, Glazes 

for 377 

Cook 1 e Table " "703 

Cooper's Pen Metal ! 74 

^>pal Varnish 720 

oPeer 210 

A1| oys ..• 51, 70 

Amalgam 90 

Amalgams, Applications 

of 87 

and Brass Gilding 577 

Platinizing 588 

A Permanent Patina for.585 

Arsenic q% 

Articles, Polish for"!! "591 

Bronzing 566 

£ Ie , an .' n S 200 

k° lor,I V? 221, 473 

Enameling 294 

f tch 'nir 324 

In Pood 05i 

.!!.!!! es 



Copper Lacquers .439 

Nickel 52 

Paint for 4« 5 

Paper 507 

Patinizing and Plating. .581; 

Polishes 590 

Separation of Gold from. 382 

Copper-Silver Alloy 75 

Copper, Silver, and Cad- 
mium Alloys 

Solder for Plating 434 

Solders 059 

to Bronze I 36 

Varnishes 72 s 

Coppering 572 

Glass 512 

Plaster Models, etc 573 

Zinc Plate 673 

Copying Ink 415 

Printed Pictures 222 

Process on Wood ^2 

Cordage .....223 

Lubricant 463 

Waterproofing 753 

Cordials 703 

Cork as a Preservative . .606 

Cleaner 210 

to Metal, Fastening .... 36 

Corks 223 

Impermeable and Acid- 
proof 10 

to Clean 210 

Waterproofing 742 

Corn Plaster 224 

Cures 224 

Corrosive Sublimate Poison 04 

Cosmetic Jelly 232 

Cosmetics 225, 702 

Cottenham Cheese 170 

Cotton 215 

Belts, Lubrication 4G2 

Decreasing 24G 

Cottonseed, Extracting 011.482 
Hulls as Stock Food ...240 

Oil 482 

Compress Cough Balsam 
with Iceland Moss ... .211 

Drops , 217 

Mixtures and Remedies. 211 

for Cattle 730 

Syrup 211 

Counter Polishes 590 

Court Plasters 247, 563 

Cow Diseases — Remedies... 730 

Powder 730 

Cow's Milk, Powder for... 732 

Cracked Leather 448 

Cracks in Tools, to Render 

Visible 686 

Crayons 874 

for Graining and Marb- 

, Ung 247 

for Writing on Glass ..874 

Creams ,225, 7 02 

Anti-kink Hair 393 

Beef Tea n 2 

Bonbons for Hoarseness. 210 

Cheese 173 

How to Determine 474 

Mud 480 

Soda Powder 028 

Creams for the Face and 

Skin 225, 24a, 792 

Creosote-carbolic Acid 

Poison 94 

Cresol Emulsion 248 

Crimson Dye for Silk .....'271 

Indelible Ink 400 

Crystal Cements 248 

Crystalline Coatiners or 
Frost-work on Glass or 

PfPer 8 7 g 

Honey Pomade , 227 



Crystallization, O r n a - 

n mental ....a 0a 

Crockery 10 " 

Plaster and Meerstbau'm 

Repairing „_ 

Crocus "2 J S 

Crude Petroleum, Emul- 
sion Of goi 

Crushed Apricot 305,' 604 

Cherries 3 B5, 004 

Fruit Preserving . . , 004 

grange 36 5, '504 

£? ucn • 365, Q04 

Pineapples gea Bl) , 

Raspberry 3a 

Strawberry g B i 

Cucumber Creams -...!"" 237 
Cucumber Essence an 
Jelly, Juice, and Milk.! ^23 

Juice 930 

Milk !!. 239 

Pomade 228 

Cummins's Whipped Cream' 248 

Curacoa Cordial 734 

Liqueur '77Q 

Cure for Barber's Itch !!!486 

for Snake Bites ea 

for Tan 

for Warts 735 

Currant Cream 115 

Curry Powder 2isj 

Curtains, Coloring of ..,.446 

Cuticle Remover . . , 227 

Cutlers' Cements for Fix- 
ing Knife Blades into 

Handles is 

Cutlery Cements 16 

Cutting, Drilling, Grinding, 
and Shaping Glass . , . .371 

Cuspidor Powder 253 

Custard Powder 249 

Cyanide of Potassium 

Poison 93 

Cylinder Oil 464 

Cymbal Metal 64 

Cypress Water , .... 519 

b 

Dairy Products ...854 

Damaskeen in g 249 

by Electrolysis 249 

on Enamel Dials ......250 

Damp Walls, Coating for, 

400, 499 

Damson Cheese 176 

Dandruff Cures 388 

Dnreet Allov 64 

Dark-blue Dve ^3 

Dark Gold Purple 383 

Dark-Green Blackboard 

Paint *89 

Dark Red Grease Paint. ..229 
Snuff-Brown Dye for 

Wool 267 

Steel Dye 269 

Deadening Paint ....491 

Dead-gilding of an Alloy 

of Copper and Zinc ..579 
Dead, or Matt, Dip for 

Brass 

Deadly Nightshade Poison. 94 
Decaleomnnia Processes ..250 
Decay of Teeth, to Pre- 

vent .-W* 

Dccolorization of Carbolic 

Acid 147 

Decolorizing and Deodoriz- 
ing Oils .-A-.riai 

or Blenching Linseed CM 
Decomposition of Oils , 

Fats 

Decorating Aluminum •••• 81 



■ 



Decorative Metal *J*^ 
nishes ... m 

Red 

307 



Raspberry Syrup 
. nr Horn De- 
Deboineis or nu.u 

stroyers 



Delta Metal _ 
Dem0 t nrF ? ed Alcohol . .45. 078 



63 
Oil 



Dental Cements ^ 
F1 S^S '".'.'.251-259, 79G 
KSSSSSt for Watery 
DeodSion" of" Calcium 

Carbide ■ 
Deodorized Alcohol .....^g* 

Cod Liver Oil 2 

petroleum 



163, 251 



Deodorizing Benzine 

BBS g^a- »jg 

Depression Garden ^ 

Desilvering ■ • - ■ 

Detannatins Wine .... 
Detecting Dyed Honey 
Detection of Albumen 

Urine ■ • • ■ • • 

of Formaldehyde 

Food 

in Milk V " 

of Glucose in Food 
of Saccharine in *ood 



106 
250 



.705 
.396 
1 

. 44 
a 

.351 

.474 
,351 



.351 



of Salicylic Acid in Food. 343 

of Starch in Food .J57 

Detergent for Skin Stains. 35 
Detergents - 100 



Determination of Artiiicial 

Colors in Food asi 

of Preservatives ***S? 

Determining Cream ..... .«* 

Developers for photo - 

graphic Purposes _ 52 J 

Development of Platinum 

Prints i 

Dextrine P astes .......... 35 

Diabetics, Lemonade for . .100 

Dial Cements 

Cleaners ' 

Repairing ™' 

Diamalt *7j 

Dianiantine ™" 

Diamond Cement . . j» 

Glass Cement *a 

Tests ™l 

Diarrhoea in Birds >* J 

Remedies 

Die Venting 261 

Digestive Powders ........ 261 

Relish 213 

Diogen Developer " * i «i 

Dip for Brass • 1 5J, 

Dipping Metals, Danger of 470 

Dips 409 

for Cattle : 2D * 

Direct Coloration of Iron 
and Steel by Cupnc 

^ Selenite 368 

Directions for Bronzing. .135 
for Making Perfumes - - s \ 2 

Disinfectants 234 

Disguising Odor of Car- 
bolic Acid 1*1 



INDEX 



Dissolving Old Rubber ...622 

Distemper in Cattle 729 

Distinguishing Blue from 

Green 121 

Diuretic Bull 731 

Dog Applications 419 

Biscuit 265 

Soap 054 

Dog "Nuisance" 265 

Pets 732 

Donarite 830 

Doors, to Clean 190 

Doses for Adults and Chil- 
dren 205 

Dose Table for Veterinary 

Purposes 729 

Douche for Women 208 

Drawing Inks 403 

Paper 5°* 

Temper from Brass ....133 
Drawings, Preservation of .266 

to Clean -206 

Draw-tempering Cast Steel 687 
Dressing for Carriage 

Tops 448 

for Sewing Thread 706 

Dressings for Harness 451 

for Leather 448 

for Linoleum 459 

for the Hair 389 

Dried Casein, its Mfg 148 

Yolk of Ess 284 

Driers »™ 

Driffield Oils fj. 

Drill Chips, to Utilize ■■•■f ° 

Drilling Hard Steel €87 

Lubricant for 
Shaping, and Filing 

Glass -■ ', 37j! 

Drinking Water, Removal 

of Iron from •■■•■■■; 741 
Drinks for Summer and 

Winter J"' 

Soda Water ... . .... - • • • ■ L 

Drops of Lime in the Eye. 333 
Table of ™* 

D TBt S eVforPainti':::: 4 S 

Hot? Remedies for "J 

Sugar Preserving » flfl 

Y€*st ;;*.'.4S5 

Drying Oils ■•Vp^ ste ... 41 
Druggists' Label Paste 
Dubbing for Leatner .... 
Duesseldorff Mustard 
Dunlop Cheese 
Durable Bronze 
ners .....«•• 

Putty 

Dust-laying 
Dust Preventers 
Dutch Cleaner . 
Dutch (Holland) 

Pink Dye 
Dyeing Feathers 

Iflfor Cotton Fabrics- 

Straw Hats "...26° 

Dyes 274 

and »y e f t tuffs for ' Textile ^ 
Colors, etc., ior 2 79 



865 



Earthenware 168 

Easily Fusible Alloys .... 64 
Eastman's Sepia Paper ..581 

Eaton's Styptic 701 

Eau de Botot Water 519 

do Lais Water 519 

de Merveilleuse Water .519 

de Quinine 893 

Eberle's Whipped Cream.. 248 

Ebony 783 

Lacquer 439 

Stains 782 

Eczema Dusting Powder.. 282 

Edible Oils 355 

Effervescent Bath Tablets. 10S 
Powdera 627 

Eggs . 282, 355 

Egg Chocolate 114 

Claret US 

Coffee H5 

Crerae de Menthe Ha 

Dyes 2]5 

Lemonade ......... .111, US 

Malted Milk Coffee 11* 

Oil •■■284 

Orgeat .. "* 

Phosphate 

Powder 284 

Preserver 285 

Shell Writing Under ...788 

Shampoo «Ja 

Sherbet l« 

Sour \\% 

Wine J™ 

Egg-stain Remover f \ 

Eikonogen Developer .524 

Ektogan 

Elaine Substitute 286 

Electric InstalMions, Fus- 

^t.i_ a linns fnr ....... f"» 

...425 



on Ban- 



266, 



Cheese. 



137 
.0(17 
485 
.401 
.268 
.176 
.278 
.835 
.450 
.280 



ible Alloys for 
S^f&;"coIoring ..m 

Chromium Plating <f l > 

Electrolysis in ^e's^iM 
Electroplating and Electro-^^ 

typing ; 288 

Elm Tea . • • - • vy' .288 

Embalming. P^gfampVnff 
Embroideries & tamp, "° a3o 

Powder for u 

Embroidery, Ink for 

Embossing inK 

Emery ** 

Grinder 

astern 

Eiuulgen 

Emulsiflers . ■ • ■ ■ • • ■ 
Emulsion. Cresol 

of Bromoform "--^ ..521 
Emulsions of Petroleum ^ 



289 
...289 
. . .289 
...176 
. ..234 
...290 
...289 
...843 
. . .18* 



Dish Washing . 
Disinfectant for Books 

Disinfectants 

for Sick lloom 

Diainfectlng Coating . 

Fluids .7 

or Weed-killers 



.899 
.125 
.262 
.284 
.205 
.202 
202 



f o?Artmchd- Flowers 

for Feathers 359 

for Food "...272 

for Furs '.' 2 73, 709 

for Hats ....450 

Djrtsssr^' 1 ^i 8 4 

vy skin ,w 

Dynamite .,..•••♦* 



. .272 



Powders 202 



, , .737 
Enamel Colors . . 5 90 
for Automobiles • 
for Copper Cookius ...805 
"...227 
. .721 
189 



sels 
f or Nails 
for Vhts 

Glass ...809 

Mixing 

Removers 

Solder " 72ft 

Varnishes 



INDEX 



unified Dials, Cement 

for 20 

Iruti lietipes 305 

Enameling 200 

Alloys G7 

Enamels, Metallic Glazes 

on 173 

Unaffected by Hot Water 721 
Engines (Gasoline), Anti- 
freezing' Solution for.. 303 

English Margarine 143 

Pink Dye 278 

Weights and Measures ..758 
Engravers' Varnishes ....723 
Engraving, Matting, and 

Frosting Glass 375 

on Steel 087 

orEtdiing on Steel 687 

Spoon Handles 309 

Engravings, their Preserva- 
tion 309 

to Reduce 310 

to Transfer 710 

Enlargements 542 

Envelope Guru 43 

Epicure's Sauce 213 

Epizooty 731 

Eradicator3 205 

Erasing Powder or Pounce 189 

ence Benedictine 709 

of Anchovies 98 

of Cinnamon 312 

of Extract of Soup Herbs 212 

of Savory Spices 214, 

Essences and Extracts of 

'Fruits 310, 312 

Etching 322 

Bath for Brass 324 

for Tin 700 

Copper, Brass, and Tom- 
bac 323 

Fluids 322 

Fluid for Aluminum . . . 321 
Etching, Fluid, for Brass.. 323 
to Make Stencils . . . 323 
for Copper, Zinc, and 

Steel 324 

for Gold 324 

for Lead, Antimony, 
and Britannica 

Metal 324 

for Tin or Pewter 324 

for Zinc 32.1 

Fluids for Copper .325 

for Iron and Steel ...322 

for Silver 324 

Glass by Means of Glue. 326 
Ground for Copper En- 
graving 322 

on Copper , 324 

on Glass 325 

on ™ OI 7, 327, '42 0 

on Marblo 337 

on Steel " C g 7 

Powder for Iron "arid 

*v St &\ 33 3 

for Metals 324 

Steel, Liquids for . . ! ! ! 327 

with Wax 33a 

Eucalyptus Bonbons 212 

ta Paste 257 

Examination of Foods'!! !352 

Expectorant Mixtures . . 212 

Explosives M8 330 

exposures m Photograph- 

™g .....528 

temporaneous Anchovy 

Sauce 9 g 

Extract, Ginger-ale .'.'.!!! '.107 
Of Meat Containing Al- 
bumen q n1 

of Milk Vl{ 

Extracting Oil from ' Cot- 
tonseed 4 a2 



Extract? 312 

Coffee ....318 

Eye, Koreigu Matter in...S83 

Eyeglasses 378 

Eye Lotions 33« 

Eyes, Puftmess Under . ...fiuu 



Fabric Cleaners 191 

Fabrics, To Set Colors 212 

Fabrics, Waterproofing of. 742 

Facade Paint 499 

Face Black and Face Pow- 
der 280 

Bleach or Beautifier 231, 480 
Cream without Grease ..239 

Powder, Fatty 230 

Faded Photographs 544 

Fairthorne'S Dental Ce- 
ment 103 

Fancy Soda Drinks 113 

Fastening Cork to Metal. . SO 

Fat Reducer 482 

Fats 333, 334, 335 

Decomposition of 484 

for Soldering 659 

Fatty Acid Fermentation 

Process 334 

Face Powders 230 

Feather Bleaching and 

Coloring 121, 335 

Dyes 272, 335 

Feet. Callous Spots on ...144 

Felt Hats, To Stiffen 33G 

Fermentation, Prevention 

of 765 

Process, Fatty Acid 334 

Fcrro-argentan 71 

Ferro-prussiate Paper 539 

Ferrous-oxalate Developer 525 
Fertilizer with Organic 
Matter, for Pot 

Flowers 337 

Fertilizers ..330 

Bone ggg 

Fever in Cattle .731 

Fig Squares 216 

File Alloys C4 

Metal 64 

Files 339 

Geneva Composition ... 84 

to Clean .205, 339 

Vogel's Composition 04 

Filigree Gilding 570 

Fillers for Letters ...457 

for Wood 773 

Film-stripping !gg 3 

Filter Paper 504 

Fjlters for Water 339 

Finger-marks, to Remove 125 
Fingers, Pyrogallic - acid 

Stains on jgg 

Finger-tips, Sparks from. .01 1 
f mislimg Enamel for 

White Furniture 722 

Firearm Lubricants 4«n 

Firearms, Oil for 400 

Fire, Chain of BliJ 

Colored 'goij 

Grenades, Substitutes 



for 



. 341 



Trick "til 

Extinguishers !' - 340 

Extinguisher for Auto- 
mobiles 340 

Fireproof and Waterproof 

Paints An-i 

Coating- .!!!'* "ft'44 

Compositions ... ait 
Glue " t« 

gaint s .v;;.:: ::::«o 

Papers 3 , u 50 . 

Fireprooflng JJ}; gj* 

Celluloid , I.is9 



Fireprooflng Clothing 342 

for Wood, Straw, Tex- 
tiles ,.843 

Light Woven Fabrics . . 34a 

Matches 344 

Hope and Straw Mat- 
ting 

Stage Decorations ... 343 

T ents , !342 

Fireworks erio 

Fish Bait ;;; 3 44 

Fishing Net, Preservation 

of 223 

Fixing and Clearing Baths 535 
Agents in Perfumes ....512 

Baths for Paper 542 

Fixatives for Cravon Draw- 
ings, etc 34,4 

Flabby Flesh Bath Tonic 103 
Flabby Skin, W T ash for, 

„ , . 103, 234 

Flashlight Apparatus .....552 
Apparatus with Smoke 

Trap S52 

Flannels, Whitening of ...44a 

Flavoring Cigars 133 

Extracts 355 

Peppermint as a ....... 2S8 

Sarsaparilla ...029 

Flavorings !2i3 

for Dentrifrice .■ 255 

Spices .213 

Flea Destroyers 423 

Flesh Face Powder 243 

Flexible Ivory 42s 

Flies and Paint 501 

in the House ......... .399 

Floor Coating goo 

Dressings 344 

Oils 485 

Paper 50s 

Polish 591 

Varnishes 724 

Waterproofing 753 

Wax 754 

Flooring, Sani-Tex Compo- 
sition 345 

Florentine Bronzes 136 

Floricin Brill iantine 483 

Oil 483 

Florida Waters 514 

Flower Preservatives 345 

Flowers, Coloring for 346 

Flour and Starch Composi- 
tions 35 

Paste 39 

Fluid Measure, U. S. 

Standard .....704 

Fluid Measures 758 

Fluids, Clothes-cleaning ..192 

Disinfecting 262 

for Embalming 288 

for Soldering 65!) 

Fluorescent Liquids 347 

Flussing H;iir 401 

Fluxes for Soldering 660 

Used in Enameling .,..305 
Flux for Enameled Iron ..305 

Fly Essences 421 

Fly-papers and Fly-poisons 347 

Fly-kiHers ....421, 079 

Ply Protectives for Ani- 
mals 419 

Foam Preparations 348 

Foamy Scalp Wash 3S9 

Foreign Matter in the TCye 333 
Food Adulterants, Tests 

for 348 

Benzoic Acid in . 1(r7 

Colorants 358 

Conked in Copper Vessels 94 

Foods. Bird 120, 72!) 

for Pets 733 

for Red Birds 729 



INDEX 



867 



Foot Itch "'and' Solu 
XSSL bn "Cattle ?3° 

F Te£eS r 0 fSeed Grarn^ 
ing Tnrcelain, Glass- 



733 I Fusible Alloys for Electric 

Installations 64 

Enamel Colors 306 

Safety Alloys for Steam 

Boilers 05 

Fusion Point of Metals . .47» 



Galvanized Iron 490 

Roofing ..307 

Paper 507 

Gamboge Stain 439 

Gapes in Poultry 734 

Garancine Process .......277 

Gardens, Chemical 368 

Garment-cleaning Soap ...C45 

Gas Fixtures 180 

Bronzing of 508 

Gasoline Pumps, Packing 

for «8 

Gas Soldering 660 

Stove, to Clean 202 

Trick. • "l" 

xw'VwhiPped Cream ...-248 G Lubricant 403 

Ifagrant Naphthalene ^ ^ titl 369 



v Poster 

- "d Meerschaum 27 

- Away 



.420 



to D rive .^ tS Bees """ ..-.105 
FoU \^°folution Poison,. 93 
Fowlei s faoiuuu D[gitalis 

Fosffloy e - or ...... 94 



Poison 



Camphor 



protection from 



Frames, n^o. . t303 

Flies - . " " 1fl s 

Frame Cleaning ™* 

«s^,erSP^: 
Freezing Mixtures... .si t>, Ji« 
preventives * 

French Brandy • r: ■ • ■ "^ViSS 
Bronze, Preparation of .130 

Dentrifice g° 

Floor Polish % J * 

Gelatin • • "'ill 

' Hide Tanning Process.. 453 

Solders for Silver 664 

Varnish 
Fresh Crushed Fruits 

Frost Bite 

Preventive 



Air Bubbles in 370 

Gems, Artificial .-370 

Gem Cements ^ 
Geneva Composition Files. 64 
Genuine Silver Bronze ...140 

German Matches ...4bT 

Method of Preserving 

Meat • 3 «i 

Silver or Argentan .... w 
German-silver Solders ----|«| 
German Table Mustard ..215 
Gilders' Sheet Brass 5j 



Wax 



.493 



724 
365 
363 

363 

376 

374 

'.**. ...375 

Automobile 
364 



Removers 
Frosted Glass 

Mirrors .... 
Frosting for 
Headlights 
Frosting Polished Silver.. 640 
Fruit Essences and ■ Ex- „ in 

tracts 3io 

Frappe \]l 

Jelly Extract 81* 

Preserving 364, 004 

Products Z J. 

Syrups ?Si 

Vinegar 

Fuel . 15 2 

Fuller's Purifier for Cloths 274 
Fulminates 832 



Plating V «« 

German Silver .-"fc'.SS 

Wass 493 

in Size ••*••," — j~' * 579 
Metals, Powder for 

P;,ctpS 0 

Plating and Electrotyp-^ 

ing *i85 
Renovation or 5g0 

Steel 575 

Substitute ••• lg5 

to Clean ■ 738 

Watch Movements ... . ■ • >* 
Gilt Frames, Polish for ..joo 

^WBur.ish'::::::^ 

Ginger Ale, Flavoring 

Soluble Extract 1Q8 

Beer ...314 

Extracts 6 7 

Gold-leaf Alloys _ 383 

Striping . . - • • ■ ■ "... .727 
Gold Varnish for lin..-. 371 

GlflSSi » * •* ""***'*' $74 
Fubninating" Antimony — ^32 1 Acid-proof ■*A^*cement 28 
^ • Ill Glass and Porce^m c ^ meijt _ 5 



Glass and Porcelain 

Lubricants 372 

Manufacturing .873 

Polishes for 593 

Porcelain Repairing .... 26 
Refractory to Heat ....878 
Stop Cock Lubricant . . .462 

Stopper, to Loosen 700 

Silvering of 47B 

Solders for 6 92 

Substitute (Duro Glass) 877' 
to Affix Paper on 19 

to Cut 371 

to Fasten Brass Upon. . . 17 
to Fix Gold Letters to . . 18 
to Remove Glue from . .208 

to Silver 641 

"Waterproof Cements for 21 
Globes, How to Color ....371 

Silvering 

Glossy Paint for Bicycles. 49 5 

Gloucester Cheese 176 

Glove Cleaners 195 

Gloves, Substitute for Rub- 
ber 106 

Testing J2» 

Glaziers' Putty 607 

Glazing on Size Colors ...877 

Glaze for Bricks 377 

Glazes 

and Pottery Bodies . . . .1« 

for Cooking Vessels 37 

for Laundry 

Glucose in JeUy ....m 

Glue, Box ■ 

Chromium for Wood, 
Paper and Cloth .... 

Clarifler 

Elastic 

SrXtfelesor^MetaBlc 

or Mineral Character 1- 
for Attaching Cloth 

mrins to Iron ■■ 

tor Attaching Gloss to 

Precious Metals 

for Belts •*♦•*• lS 

for Cardboard * 

for Celluloid \ s 

SffleV^» g 
for Paper and Metal ... * $ 
for Tablets 



.37 
. l 
. 1 



Bismuth 

Copper 3 " 

Mercury 

Powder ...333 

Silver 610 

Fumigants 86 ;> 

Fumigating Candles 865 

Incubator 402 

Funnels, to Clean 204 , 

Furnace Jacket 308 

Furniture Cleaners 206 

Enamel 7 22 

Garden Furniture 868 

Polishes 592 

„Wax 764 

Puses 610 

for Electrical Circuits . • 0* 



and Glassware 90 

Balls, Amalgam for 587 

Silvering ■--••jj-'- tal 

Celluloid, ana *w 

Inks . • 

Cement for 

Cleaning •■^Yiforiir" 
Coppering, Gilding, 

Plating 

Etching 



408 
... 21 

208 

and 

..5T2 
' ..825 
25 



for Uniting Metals witn ^ 

Fabrics 

for Wood ' 10 

Manufacture 1S 

pS&K'W 

TorreventCru^^ 879 
to Fasten Linoleum J4 
Iron Stairs - r ----|g- , a 
to Form Paper P«w 4 « ^ 

Glues "** 11 

Liquid 1 3 

Waterproor ...878 

G1 ana r cUmbVrJeliy* «• 

Applications^^ ^ 237> 3S fl 



Fastening Metais u ^ 578 

Gilding • • ■ • ; ; , . . . 3U 
Grinding Iiwa - n - ttcrg 

How to Affix 18 

. on ...45 7 

Letterin 



nS a Detergent 

Creams - - ' \ 

Developer 

Lotion V; 

Milk 

process 

Soa P Milk* 'Cheese 



.040 



186 
.287 
.530 
.379 
.2S9 
.581 
652 
.178 
.379 
.482 



Goats' 

G Actd Test for . • - -//gV/lSS 
Alloys 



INDEX 



Id Amalgams .......... 89 

and Silver Bronze Pow- 
ders ... ■ 139 

Assaying of .381 

Enameling Allays 07 

Ennmel Paints 193 

Etching Fluid for 524 

Extraction of, by Amal- 
gamation 80 

foil Substitutes and Gold 

Leaf 747 

rom Acid Coloring 

Baths 381 

mitations of 433 

ndelible Ink 40(3 

nk 384, 405, 415 

ewelry, to Give a Green 

Color to 582 

~quers 440 

f and its Applica- 
tions 492 

Gold-leaf Alloys 67 

Golf-leaf Waste, to Re- 
cover 381 

Gold Lettering 456 

Letters on Glass, Ce- 
ments for Affixing .... 18 

Oil Suitable for Use 485 

Paints 492 

Gold-plate Alloys 67 

Gold Plating 575 

Printing on Oilcloth, S79 

Purple 383 

Recovery of Waste ... .381 
Reduction of Old Photo- 
graphic 535 

Renovator 199 

Solders 434, eei 

Testing .432 

Varnish 726, 727 

Ware Cleaner 200 

Welding 391 

Goldenade m 

Golden Fizz 115 

Varnishes 734 

'Golf Goblet" 'iu 

Gong Metal 54 

Grafting Was 755 



Grain 



Graining and Marbling ,' \ "247 

£°. lo ra 550 

~Tt yons ■ 247 

Of Brass jon 

with Paint 494 

Granola u 0 

Grape Glace 114 

Juice, Preservation of"'*767 
Graphite Lubricating Com- 

Gravel Walks sa « 

Gravers 

Gray Dyes *!!" 

Tints 

Grease Eradicators 
nj£f locomotive Axles' 

feSlS.^ ••III 



385 
209 
559 
205 
402 



reases 



228 
402 



Wagon and Axle" ', 482 
teen Bronze on iron ! I33 

Patma Upon Copper . '. .585 



Green Salve 480 

to Distinguish Blue from 121 

Grenades 341 

Grinder Disk Cement, Sub- 
stitute for 31 

Grinding 708 

Glass 372 

Grindstone Oil 380 

Grindstones 38G 

Ground Ceramics, Laying 

Oil for 485 

for Relief Etching 322 

Grounds for Graining 

Colors 55B 

Grosser's Washing Brick ..445 

Gruyere Cheese 17S 

Gum Arabic, Substitute, 

43, 388 

Bichromate Process . . . .510 

Drops 216 

for Envelopes 43 

Gums 386 

their Solubility in Alco- 
hol ..386 

Used in Making Varnish 71 S 
Gun Barrels, to Blue ....682 

Bronze 59 

Cotton ....831 

Lubricants ,. 4 GO 

Gunpowder 328 

Stains 387 

Gn tta-perch a 387 

Gutter Cement .....162 

Gypsum 387 

Flowers 346 

Paint for T 293 



H 



Haenkel's Bleaching Solu- 
tion 445 

Hair Cream Anti-kink ....393 

Hair-curling Liquids 389 

Hair Dressings and 

Washes 339 

Dyes 390 

Embrocation 38 0 

for Mounting 888 

Oil 300 

Oils, Perfumes for 520 

Preparations 388, 795 

Removers 259 

Restorers and Tonics, 

„ .,, 389, 391 

Setting Fluid 795 

Shampoo . 393 

Straighteners .... 395 

to Fluff 401 

Wave Fluid 700 

Hand Bleach '233 

Creams and Lotions " .232 
Hand-cleaning Paste 233 
Handkerchief Perfumes 516 
Hand Stamps, Ink for 411 
Hands, Remove Stains 

„ fr <>m i 8 4 185 

Perspiring 233 

Hard-finished Walls 409 

Hard German -silver or 

Steel Solrler .ofli 

Glaze Bricks 104 

Lead " 71 

Metal Drilling Lubricant 4GS 

Putty 607 

Sobers 6es C61 

solder for Gold mi 

wood polish ,:;:«m 

Hardened Ivory 429 

Steel, to Solder , eo5 

Hardening Plaster of 

- p £ ri ? 504 

of Springs 6a5 

Steel without Scaling ..685 



Hare-Hp Operation 0n 
Harmless Butter Color '"u? 

Colors for Use in SyrupV a|f 
Harness Dressings ...... 45a 

Grease 1 ™y 

oils . «1 

Preparations '"Ici 

Pastes ^? 

wax :::::: .las 

Hartshorn Poison 0it 

Hat cleaning Compounds "lfVr 
Hats Waterproofil, £ '.7U 

Headache Cologne .... 394 

Remedies ' 3r) t 

Head Lice in Children .' '422 
Headlights, How to Frost 364 
Heat indicating Paint ... 501 
Heat Insulation ... "',19 a 

Prickly ""'398 

Heat-resistant Lacquers . 441 

Heaves 73 J 

Hectograph Pads and 

HoA'T'i 395 > 41 8 
Hedge Mustard ....354 

Heel Polish ......633 

Hellebore Toison 94 

Helvetius's Styptic "'701 

Hemlock Poison 94 

Hemorrhoids ,5$i 

Henbane Poison . ... . 94 

Herbarium Specimens* 

Mounting 394 

Pomade 227 

Herb Vinegar .735 

Hide Bound 731 

Hide-cleaning Processes ..188 

Hides 434 

Hoarfrost Glass 375 

Hoarseness, Bonbons for.. 215 

Remedy for 211 

Holland Cheese 176 

Hollow Concrete Blocks . .891 

Silverware 640 

Home-made Outiit for 

Grinding Glass 372" 

Refrigerators 616 

Honey 398 

Clarifier 398 

Water 5l» 

Wine 408 

Honeysuckle Perfumery . .518 

Honing 761 

Hoof Sores 730 

Hop Beer 10* 

Bitter Beer 318 

Syrup 315, 395 

Hcrehound Candy . . 217 

Horn 396 

Bleaches 130 

Uniting Glass with 17 

Horns, Staining 397 

Horse Blistering 729 

Horse-colic Remedy ..... - 729 
Horse Embrocations and 

Liniments ..731 

Horses and Cattle 729 

Treatment of Diseases ..729 

Horticultural Ink 40* 

Hosiery, Dye for 268 

To Slop Runs In 397 

Hot Beef Tea , - n f 

Bouillon 11 * 

Celery Punch Hf 

Chocolate and Milk ■ ■ ■ A1 l 

Egg Bouillon I 1 * 

Chocolate HI. 1J» 

Coffee 

Drinks }\i 

Lemonade *\i 

Milk »» 

Nogg I* 8 



INDEX 



869 



lot m Orangeade _ . .UJ 
lemonades 113 

..112 
..112 



Mfllieu 



Or, 
Soda 



Todd J 



Drinks 



.111 

.113 
Dl 



Soda-water 

behold Ammonia ....^ 

Formulas 

muse Paint ... 



.804 
. 80 



a 

. .150 



,.500 

louse ^'"V; " " Metals . . .180 
i0 " v n ° Panama Hat . 137 

ft£2? and Steel 202 

Tarnished S Iver 
rAinr Aluminum 
to W£t Automobile^ 

to Gal^a^ed Koof- 397 

to' Make "Castings of In-^ 
failarSVatVr^rooKUoO 
a Plaster Cast of 
Coin or Medal . 
Picture Postal Cards 
and Photographic 
Letter Head ■ >>•" 

Simple Syrups; Hot 

Process . . l"i 

to Open a Rook ... 

opLte Labels on Tin. 40 
to Pour Out Castor Oil. 153 
to Renovate Bronzes » . -gj 
to Reproduce Old PTints.22j 
to Sensitize Photographic 

Printing Papers •••.•: 533 
to Take Care of Paint 

Brushes •••■}*" 

Castor Oil 154 

to Tell Pottery 

to Unite Rubber and ^ 

Leather ■ * £ 

to Tell the Character of 

Enamel B "* 

Huebner's Dental Cement. 163 

Himvadi Water ™ 

Huvler's Lemonade • 

Hvrlrnulic Cement 33 

Brake Fluid 126 

Hydrocyanic Acid Gas for 
Exterminating House- 
hold Insects .........418 

Hydrofluoric Formulas ...32<J 
Hydrosraphic Paper . . . -501 
Hydropen Peroxide as a 

Preservative 605 

Hygrometer and Its Use. 401 
Hydrometers and Hygro- 

scopes 402 

Hyoscyamus, Antidote to .102 



Imitation Japanese 

Bronze 188 

of Antique Silver .....B40 

I Tory ..!B9 

Platinum 14 

Silver Alloys 77 

Bronze 140 

Foil 474 

Stains for "Wood 781 

Imogen Developer 527 

Impervious Corks ........223 

Impregnation of Papers 
with Zapon Varnish.. 500 

Improved Celluloid 158 

Incandescent Lamps ....442 

Incense 860 

Incombustible Bronze Tinc- 
ture 135, 137 

Increasing the Toughness, 
Density and Tenacity 

of Aluminum 83 

Incrustation, Prevention 

of 123 

Incubator, to Fumigate... 408 
Indelible Hand - stamp 

Ink «1 

Inks 40a 

for Glass or Metal... 404 

Labels on Bottles 327 

Stencil Inks 412 

India, China or Japan Ink 400 
India-rubber Varnishes 

Indoor 'pYants", ww*<- 

for ASI 

Industrial and Potable 
Alcohol: Sources and 

Mfg. 

Infant Foods *™ 

Infants. Milk for -.■■■■■;- 4 '™ 
Inflammable Explosive with 
Chlorate of Potash . . 
Inflammability of Cellu- 
loid Reduced 
Inflammation of the Udder TBI 

Influenza in Cattle jsi 

in Horses - g9 

Ink Eradicators «j 9 

Erasers m 

for Laundry *r.a 
for Leather Finishers ..453 
for Steel Tools ...... 

f or Writing on Glass ^ 

'.417 

Luminous 404 

on Marble i - . ■ • ■ ■ ■ ' n ' gg^o? 
powders and Lozeugt 
Removing - 



.724 
.268, 281 
Compost 



.637 



.331 
.15S 



Insulation 42-5 

Against Heat 4Z6 

Mo'sture, "Weather, 

etc .426 

Intensiflers and Reducers. 55a 
International Atomic 

Weights 757 

Iodine Poison 94 

Soap ..040 

Stains, To Remove 402 

Iodoform Deodorizer . . . .427 

Iridescent Paper 504 

Iridia Perfumery' 516 

Iron ...427 

and Mnrble, Cement for 17 
and Steel, Etching 

Fluids for 322 

Polishes 587 

Powder for Harden- ■ 

ing 427 

Biting Off Red Hot 612 

Black Paint for 495 

Iron, Bronzing 587 

Castings, to Soften ....127 

Cements for 17, 25 

How to Attach Rubber 

to :-• 2» 

Pines, Rust Prevention 

for «25 

Silvcr-platmg 587 

Solders 6 ?£ 

to Cement Glass to 17 

to Clean 

to Cloth, Gluing J* 

to Color Blue .-•■•• T i-.-* 4 
to Nickleplate, by Fnc- 

tion *I 

to Whiten ••**• 

Varnishes 

Ironing Wax "1 

Irritating Plaster J|{ 

itch, Barbers' 

1V arfd Bone " Bleaches -f 

Black A g 

Cement . . . . >'i en 

Coating for Wood 5° 

Etching on Z„ 

Gilding 5 

Polishes 

Tests 



1 

Ice , 402 

Flowers 402 

Iced Coffee U* 

Iceland Moss. Cough Mix- 
ture 211 

Ideal Cosmetic Powder... 243 
limiting Composition ....403 
Imitation Black Marble . .oao 

Cider 182 

£>i Simon ds .432 

Res Shampoos ™l 

Gold 07. 488 

Foils 474 



Lozenges 
Stains, Removing 

In IrHaid St^'"'^g5 
for Shading Pen 10 

for Stamp Pads ?11 

for Typewriters u5 

Hectograph 72 4 

Inlay Varnish a , 

Maying by Electrolysis -324 

Insect BiteS i . .151 

Casting 419. 424 

Powders . ...425 

Trap V ...418 

Insecticides ..419 

for Animals r ,422 

for Plants . ■ j ng .. m 

Instructions iox ^ n 

Instrument Alloys im 

Cleaning ....4' 40 

Lacquer \ B58 

Soap ' ' Remove 
Instruments!, to 10 9 



Japan BlacK ".,,.495 

Paint ••;•••*• **... 69 

Jnpanese Alloys _ 138 

Bronze ... 76 

(Ora_y^ Silver y — ^ 

^240 
814 
.481 
.433 
. 20 
.206 
.808 
.430 
20 



Japanning - - 
Tinning • 

Extract 



Jelly 



to Clean 



gssffl 

Enamels 

Formulas ■ ■ • 

Glue Cement .... 20 f 

jewelry, to Clean 



Kalsomine 
Karats, *° 

Keeping P 1 ^ 3 
House .■• 
Kernmlcs 
Kerlt 



K 

Find ' Number 
Out" of 



a - 
. .889 
..184 
,.61» 



INDEX 



Cerosenc - cleaning Com- 
pounds 198 

SWOSene Deodorizer 484 

Emulsions 521 

Eetcluip (Adulterated) ..353 
fh.iki Color Dyeing 1 .....270 

Kid 449 

Leather Dressing-s 4-19 

Reviver 45.'! 

Kirscliner Win© Mustard. 214 

Kissing?" Salts 828 

Knife-blade Cement 16 

Knife-sharpening Paste3 ..613 

Knockenplombe 81 

Kola Cordial 7G4 

Tincture 321 

Koumiss 110 

Substitute 437 

Krems Mustard, Sour ....215 
Kreois Mustard, Sweet ..215 

Kiimmel . . 764 

Kwass 117 



S!) 
725 



Label Fastes 

Varnishes 
Labels on Tin, How to 

Paste . . 4,0 

Lac and the Art of Lac- 
quering 437 

Lace Leather 454 

to Clean Gold and 

Silver 103 

Laces, Washing and Color- 
tog' Of 448 

Lacquers 437 

Airplane Dope . .441B 

Automobile 441 A 

Bronzing Liquids 441 

Brushing Formulas 438 

Decoration of Furniture 

Novelties 4.39 

Ester Gum Solution 441A 

£ 0, . d . 441B 

Making 437 

Universal Thinners '441 

Lakes .277 

Lampblack ** 443 

Lamp Burners, to Clean" 

200, 399 

imps ..442 

..anoline Creams 933 

Hair Wash V'hn 

soap fi17 

Toilet Milk .... Ilk 

/antern Slides ". 53* 

^ard "44? 

.Mhe Lubricant ' V " aq\ 
-.audanum Poison .... ' 9* 
a-undry Blue ... 

Tablets 

Gloss Dressing .W'.'.W 

Preparations" " " ! 
Soap ... 

£2? toj?*" LaceV *; 

-airrel Water, Poison 
^avatory Deodorant " 

wS rSachets :: 

-awn Sand ' 

tld UVeS f ° r battle; "e'tV 



.443 
.444 
, .444 
.399 
.443 
.634 
.440 
. 93 



.510 
.S14 
.029 
.732 



'Application 11 
Paper" * • &8 

E^^v:::::::::S8 

-eaf Brass 8 1? 

• 54 



Leaks . . . . 440 

in Boiler3, Stopping ...008 

Leather 417 

and Rubber Cements . . 22 

as an Insulator . ...420 

Cements for 23 

Chairs, to Clean 210 

Lea ther-cleaningProcesses 180 

Leather Dyeing .450 

Lac 441 

Lubricants 400 

or Cardboard Glue .... 15 

Painting- on 455 

Polish Lacquer 441 

Removing Spots from ..200 

Plastic 455 

Varnish ..725 

Waste Insulation 426 

Waterproofing 750 

Leguminous Cheese 170 

Lemon Beer J08 

Essences 315 

Extract (Adulterated) , .IbQ 

Juice, Plain 112 

Sherbet 628 

Sour no 

Lemons 450 

Lemonade 109, 112 

for Diabetica .109 

Powder ...827 

Preparations for the 

Sick icq 

Lemonades and Sour 

Drinks no 

Lenses and their Care ...456 
Letter-head Sensitizers ..537 

Lettering 450 

a Clock Dial 737 

on Glass ; 4.57 

on Mirrors 457 

Ley Pewter 75 

Lice Killers !.'!422 

Powders '734 

Lichen Removers ...... " 4 

Licorice 45g 

T Srrup ...321 

Liebermann's Bleaching 

Test 

Light, Inactinic "154 

Li '>* c Dye for Silk 270 

Water Perfumery . $m 
Limburger Cheese . pro 

L ! me ; 33, 002 

Limeade ..no 

Lime as a Fertilizer S3 0 

Bird 4 - g 

Juice WlV'siB 

Lime-juice Cordial ""us 
Limewater for Dyers' Use 2 74 

Lincoln Cheese i 7fi 

I mcolnshiro Relish . . ' " "21 3 
Linen Bleaching ... 

Dressing ...... . \ JJJ 

to Distinguish Cotton 

j . from 24B 

Linoleum 

Cleaning and Polishing, 

r , 110 . „ „ 206, 398 

.Glue to Fasten ... 14 

Liniments "459 

for Horses "731 

Lining for Acid Reeep- 

T . tacles , 10 

Linseed Oil 34 V>9 

Adulteration of 400 

Bleaching of /. ."tig 

|>^S IS 0i f^?.:::1^ 
io e ii3 ,ng .:;.". : g* 

H po1 '.'.'.'.'.'."van 

Eipowitz Metal ei", 6S 

L;P, Pomades ^ n 

Lipsticks ; ; " 



Liqueurs ........ 

to Clarify ™8 

Liquid Bedbug Prepaid ™ 

lions , ^ 

Bottle Lae ? 21 

Bronzes ... u <> 

Cloth and Glove Cleaner 
Court Plaster . . Cr ^ 
Dentifrices .... **! 

Dye Colors ^ a 

for Bronze Powder * ill 
for Cooling Automobile 

. Engines a#.i 

Liq U1 ds for Etching Steel's^ 



■-2B5 



Liquid 

Liquid Gold 

Glues ... otJU 

Cold Solder ,JJ 

Indelible Drawing Ink 
Laundry Blue ... 4?? 
Metal Polish, Non-ex- 

plosive e QS 

Nail Enamel ..." 

Perfumes ViV " «7 £ 

Polishes ••■•on, sis 

Porcelain Cement « 

Rouge 

Shampoos "'399 

Shoe Blackings . ..* <; 3 9 

f° a P s ■ ■ :'*649 

Sty rax Soap 647 

Tar Soap 647,"<J54 

Liquor Amnion ii Anisatus 91 

Liquors TB3 

Lithia Water !!!!!*740 

Lithographic Inks ",'497 

Lacquer .....440 

_ Paper 50 5 

Liver-spot Remedies.. 841, 242 
Lobelia - Indian Poke 

Poison eg 

Locomotive Axles, Grease 

for ..462 

Lubricants 462 

Locust Killer 422 

Logwood and Indigo Blue 

Dye 268 

London Soap Powder 650 

Lotions 232-245 

T,ouse Wash 423 

Lozenges, Voice and 

Throat 219 

Lubricants 400, 4S2 

for Cutting Tools 451 

for Heavy Bearings . . . .461 
for Highspeed Bearings.. 461 

for Lathe Centers .461 

for Redrawing Shells ...463 

for Watchmakers 738 

Lulm's Washing Extract. .445 

Luminous Paints 494 

Lunar Blend 114 

Lustrous Oxide on Silver. 641 



Luster 
Lutes , 



Paste 



,464 
32 



M 

Bronze 



Machine Bronze • ■ 

Oil 460 

Machinery, to Clean, 

209, 201, S03 

to Keep it Bright 62 1 

Macht's Yellow Metal ... - 63 

Madder Lake Dye 27| 

Magic G 1 " 

Bottles I* 6 

Mirrors 

Magnesian Lemonade 

Powder 

Orgeat Powder 6 ^7 

Magnesium 

Citrate 

Flash-light Powders ... • ° s * 



INDEX 



871 



iet J? ^Ton'FiiinVs. 71 

urves o J ™ 404 

their Fi^ tl0U 

Oxide ' til 51 

Magnolia Metai M4 

Mafiogany ■ • • ■ • f Indig0 
Make Extract 2(J8 

? lue r^tUiff3 in Alum- 
Making Castings 81 

Mal leable Brass m 

Malt, Hot 859 

Malted *ood •■••■...112, 474 
Milk •*' ^2 

Of 70 

Argentan ^ 73 

CopP er 7 2 

Manganin . . | 

M , an? «i£ Preparations . .220 

of Cheese 17a 

„f riipwinK Gum ...... - A ' 0 

; 0 f Composite Paraffine 

Candles ^ 

of Glue • 

of Matches 

of Pigments . . • ■ 

Manufacturing Varnish 

Hints "837 

Manures ••••••• ■■ * ■ 223 

Manuscript Copying 

Maple ......... • ■ ■ • ■ _ 70 

iiino Liqueur 7™ 



M ar asch n ■ " ■ ? - 

Marble, Artificial 

Cements iqfi 

Cleaning i^" 

Colors 

Etching " aSa 

Painting on 

Marble, Polishing 593 

Slabs, Cement for it> 

Marbling Crayons ^ 

Paper for Books 505 

Margerine A *|> 

Marine Glue ••■ ■ Ji 

Paint to Resist Sea 

Water *$$ 

Marking Fluid 

or Labeling Inks 
Maroon Dve for Woolens. 280 

Lake Dye f 7 

Massage Application j^t 

Balls l\% 

Creams ™% 

Skin Foods 233 

Soaps 6 *' 

Mastic Lacquer 4 *J 

Mat Aluminum J*} 

Gilding 579 

Mats for Metals 

Matches 

195 



Measuring the Weight of 

Ice 402 

Meat Extract Containing 

Albumen 301 

Preservatives 359, 300 

Products (Adulterated) .357 

Medallion Metal , 62 

Medal Impressions 407 

Medals, to Clean 199 

Medical Paste 37 

Medicated Cough Drops ..217 

Massage Balls 233 

Soaps 047 

Medicinal Wines 771 

Medicine Doses 205 

Meerschaum 400 

Cements .' 80 

Repairing 27 

Mending Celluloid 1G1 

Porcelain by Riveting. .001 

Menthol Cough Drops 217 

Tooth Powder 253 

Mercury. Poison 05 

Salves ....487 

Stains, to Remove 186 

Metacarbol Developer 527 

Metal and Paper Glue ..14 
Browning by Oxidation. 583 

| Cements 25 

Cleaning 

Foil ........474 

Glass and Porcelain Ce- 

merit \l 

Inlaying 249 

Lipowitz 1° 

Polishes 0Ja 

Protectives 

Temperature of J-j>| 

Waterproof Cements for 21 
Metallic Articles, Solder- 
ing of 163 

Cement n 

GlSes on Enamels ....*JJ 
Pottery 



Luster on rouery 

Stain ; 5n7 

PaP er , ,B4B 

M ftalf and' -Their Treaty 

ening, by UiPPms ; ; 567 



Metol Developer ....624, B2B 

Mice Poison <us 

Microphotographs 550 

Milk , 354. 474 

Milk as a Substitute for 
Celluloid, Bone, and 

Ivory , 148 

Cucumber 239 

Extracts 474 

Powder for Cows ......732 

Pasteurization 475 

to Preserve 475, 606 

Minargent 04 

Mineral Acids, Poison . .. 92 

Oil 4B4 

Waters 240, 780 

Minofor Metal 1 64 

Mint Cordial 765 

Julep 114 

Mirror Alloys 72 

Mirror-lettering .457 

Mirror Polishes 59S 

Silvering 478 

Mirrors ....479 

Frosted 375 

to Clean 209 

to Prevent Dimming of .374 
Miscellaneous Tin Alloys.. 78 

Mite Killer 422 

Mixed Birdseed 120, im 

Mixers, Concrete ......... 6»t 

Mixing Castor Oil with 

Mineral Oils 484 

Mixture for Bums 
Mockingbird Food . .120, 729 

Mock Turtle Extract 212 

Modeling. Wax ....... ...755 

Modification of MUK IOT 

Infants *JJ 

Moisture 

Molding Sand 4 ™ 

Molds \ll 

of Plaster . £j£ 

MSeiieV'Cou^Dro^lT 
Mordant for Cement bur 

faces 47 o 

for Gold Size *'* 

Morphine Poison » 

Mortar Asbestos --'^'l^ 

Mosaic Gold 140, 588 

Silver •■■•i';;-^ ...42S 
Mosquitoes, Remedies .. 
Moss Kemovers . . • • • - • g5 
Moth Exterminators y 



Bronzing -• - .".21, 24 

Cements for ] 471 

Coloring • - ■ • • • • -J ' • " "32.4 
Etching Powder for . » ^ 

Fusion Point or -• •••; 
How to Attach to Rub- ^ 

her ..136 
How to Bronze M 

Securing cleaning.. 200 
Solution f or CJeanmg. ^ ^ ^ 

and Measures ...759 

"Weights 1...408 

Meth . ■ * 408 



Match Marks on Paint , ,. 

Phosphorus, Substitute Metheglm vj^ enl ne Gyp- 
for Method of PT . der ing it 




for . 

Materials ......172 

for Concrete Building 

Blocks 001 

Matrix for Medals, Coins, 

e t c 467 

Matt Etching of Copper . .323 

Matzoon *™ 

May Bowl or May Wine.. 770 

Mead 408 

Meadow Saffron Poison .. 95 

Measures 7 ", 

to Clean 20 11 



sum Ud erin |\ .V 
Weather-proof ■•• 87 8 

of Purifying ^KUariMT 
Methods g, n Jgr.....B9S 

Rubber . Posters 
Methyl Salicylate^ 

Wintergreen - -^ inon 
Mctol and 525 

Developer ■ ■ ■ • • • p eV el- 
Metol- bicarbonate ^...525 

opei* 



Motors, Anti-ireezwe ■ _ m 

lution for _ 65 4 

Mottled Soap ^9, 544 

Mountants ..•^■••- etc ...479 
Mounting Drawings. 0 

P" nts , . .... 78 

Mousset's Alwy -v- .215 

Moutarde aux Epices 2l4; 

des Jesuittes - - 99 

M ?uth Antiseptics ;'. 2S8 

Washes 259 

WaS h-toblets . ■ ^ to 

M °th%g?aph Them ...-^ 

^SrdaV^::";;;;;;;;^ 

Treams .44 

t Stick Form -j " and 
to Make , w ?^i iere to 
pasteboard Aduere ^ 

Metals ,480 

Mud Creams 

'•• 4 



INDEX 



fustncho Fixing Fluid ..480 

gttstnrd 214 

Cakes 214 

Paper 480 

Vinegar 215 

>rrh Month Wash 258 

footii Paste ..257 

N 

lad jy lis 

" iil-cleaning Washes ....227 

fail, Ingrowing 481 

Polishes 220 

Polish Remover 227 

lYarnish 227 

fame Plates, Coating for. 501 
laturnl Glue for Cement- 
ing Porcelain, Crystal 

Glass, etc 15 

Lemon Juice 31 G 

Water 730 

future, Source and Manu- 
facture of Pigments. .555 

Jeatsfoot Oil 481 

feedles, Anti-rust Paper 

for 625 I 

legatives, How to Use 

Spoiled 534 

fegro's Hair Straigrhtener. 393 

JFegro's Skin Bleach 043 

Jervine Ointment 4S7 

arve Paste .481 

Jets 223 

feufchatel Cheese 177 

feutral Tooth Powder ...255 

few Celluloid 155 

Mordant for Aniline 

Colors 273 

Production of Indigo . .281 

r iekel Alloys 76 

Bronze 70 

ickel-plating 573 

Iron, by Friction 427 

ith the Battery 573 

ickel-testing 4gi 

icket, to Clean 200 

to Remove Rust from . .109 

'lekeled Surface 580 

ickeling by Oxidation, . .587 

Test for 539 

icotine Stains, To Remove 481 

pple Ointment 4,87 

itrate of Silver Poison.. 95 

Spots 108 

itnc Acid Poison 92 

stains to Remove , . 185 

ltroglycerine 329 

on-explosive Liquid Metal 

Polish 595 

Dn-masticating Insects! . !423 
m-poisonoua Textile and 
Egg Dyes for House- 
hold Usa . . 275 

Fly-papera 347 

'on-porous Corks '224 

Jrfolk Cheese "177 

armona 1 1 * 

potty :;:::;.2so 

□teg for Potters, Glass-, 
and Brick-makers 104 

man Powder 6 2fl 

it Candy Sticks ' <z\t\ 

itmeg Essence " 31 n 

itwood Stain , " 78 s 

' Vomica Poison !615 



Leather, Stains for" \" Us5 

wood Poiikh \;\Hl 



Obesity Treatment 482 

Odorless Disinfectants ....204 

Odonter 250 

CBnantliic Ether as a Flav- 
oring for Ginger Ale. 108 

Oil, Cai-ron 242 

Castor 153 

Clock 482 

Oilcloth 45 9 

Adhesives 30 

Oil Extinguisher 341 

for Firearms 400 

Grease-, Paint-spot Erad- 

icators . 205 

How to Pour Out 153 

Lubricating 400 

Neatsfoot 481 

of Cinnamon as an An- 
tiseptic . .. . 100 

of Vitriol Poison 62 

Paintings Lacquer for.. 440 

Protection for .488 

Prints, Reproduced 223 

Removers 205 

Solidified ...461 

Stains for Hard Floors. 344 
Suitable for Use with 

Gold 485 

Oils 432 

(Edible), Tests for 355 

far Harness 451 

Purification of 335 

Oilskins .750 

Oily Bottles, to Clean ...210 

Ointments 486 

for Veterinary Purposes. 7 31 
Oleaginous Stamping 

Colors 670 

Olein Soap 654 

Oleomargarine 142 

Old-fashioned Ginger Beer.107 

Lemonade no 

Olive oil Paste . . . 148 

Onyx Cements 10 

Opium and All Its Com- 
pounds, Poison 95 

Optical Lenses, Cleaning. 208 

Orangeade no 

Orange Bitters and 

Cordial 702, 704 

Drops 21G 

Dye 271 

Extract 31(5 

Flower Water 520 

Frappe no 

Peel, Soluble Extract ..310 

Phosphate 112 

Ordinary Drab Dye sal 

Green Glass for Dis- 
pensing Bottles 373 

Negative Varnish 544 

Ore'ide (French Gold) ... 68 

Orgeat Punch no 

Ornamental Designs on 
Silver 547 

Ornaments of Iron, Black- 
ening 4Q5 

Orris and Rose Mouth 
Wash 258 

Ortol Developer 527 

Ox-gnll Soap for Cleansing 
< 6iUc 654 

Oxide. Magnetic B25 

of Chrome '172 

Of Tin 17 2 

of Zinc Poison 97 

Oxidized Steel 534 

Oxidizing jgj> 

Processes !s81 

Ozonatin* 44 



P 

Package Pop 1(vr 

wax 

Packing for Gasoline 

Pumps 183 

for Stuffing Boxes ^48$ 

Packings 48g 

gads of Paper Vss/soa 

Pain-subduing- Ointment. ..437 

Paint, Acid-resisting j 0 

Bases ""439 

Brashes 4B0 

at Rest ltl 

Cleaning .!'.140 

Deadening 491 

Dryers 4™ 

for Bathtubs 5Q i 

for Blackboards 4g9 

for Copper . ; 495 

for Iron 495 

for Protecting Cement 

Agiinst Acid g 

for Tires "50^ 

Grease ] 229 

Peeling of [\ 5n 

Removed from Clothes.. 102 

Removers \gj 

to Prevent Crawling" of .*490 
Varnish, 'and Enamel 

Removers ^g? 

Painters' Putty "go7 

Painting on Leather ....455 

on Marble 433 

on Muslin 433 

Ornaments or Letters on 
Cloth and Paper ...,48B 

Over Fresh Cement 499 

Processes iss 

Paintinsrs 4Rfl 

to Clean 195 

Paints 439, a 02 

Dry Base for 489 

for Gold and Gilding.. 493 

for Metal Surfaces 4S5 

for Roofs and Roof 

Paper .;.497 

for Walls of Cement, 
Plaster, Hard Finish, 

etc 498 

for Wood 500 

Stains, etc., for Ships... 198 
Waterproof and 

Weatherproof 499 

Pale Purple Gold 383 

Pale-yellow Soap 652 

Palladium Alloys 73 

Bearing Metal 73 

Gold 69 

Silver Alloy 73 

PalladinmizFng 583 

Palms, their Care ..503 

Panama Hat, How to 

Clean 187 

Paper 503 

and Met.nl Glue 14 

(Anti-rust) for Needles. 625 
as Protection for Iron. .625 

Blotting 503 

Box Glue 15 

Celloirlin 504 

Cements 21 

Disinfectant 203 

Fireproof 344 

Floor Covering 506 

Frosted ....371 

Paperhungers' Pastes SB 

Paper Hygrometers 402 

Making, Blue Print ...53<3 

on Glass, to Affix I 9 

Pads 503 




P F Ph %a W Proce SS e S ...536 
JjSSW Fastening to 

Gla ss i""*.725 

Varnishes • • • ■ • • • 50 g 7 51 
Waterproofing ..... * m 

Papers, \S»f ne \ ' m *. .502 

Fara fnne 50S 

Scented WKCh - B45 

Paraffining of ™™ _. 502 

parchment ana * * 2J 

Cement ... 37 

Paste ••■■*■ " 5G1 

Paris Green r)[)t) 

Eed " 264 

S ^ S V^ment ".....••• 30 

liquet Floors, Benovat^ 
.' 591 

paste, Agar-agar g7 

Albumen 90 

Antiseptic 38 

PaScard'cVmenV':::::. SI 

P^Scor'PUabie:: S 
ft?Afflxin B aothtoMetal 8T 
for Cleaning G^ss .....208 
for Fastening Leather to 

Desk Tops, etc. . . 

forMaking Paper Boxes Vj 

for Parchment Paper ...87 
for Removing Old Faint 

or Varnish Coats 1»» 

for Tissue Paper «7 

for Wall Paper jj 

Sk Ur to" Write" Vitl'i 

Water 4 ^ 

Permanent ■■>••••• «2 

that will not Mold »* 

Venetian %i 

85 
39 
595 



Pastes 
f or Paperhangers 
far Polishing Metals 



for Silvering . • s ? 



Directions for Making,, 512 

Fumigating .306 

for Hair Oils 520 

for Soap 048 

Permanent Waving Fluid. Tfla 
Peroxide of Hydrogen, 

to make 521 

Perpetual Ink 404 

Perspiration Remedy ....233 

Perspiring Hands 238 

Petrifying Wooden Objects 606 
Petrolatum Cold Cream., 226 

Petroleum 521 

Briquettes 522 

Emulsion 423 

for Spinning 522 

Hair Washes 390 

Jellies and Solidified 

Lubricants 461 

Soap 048 

Pewter T5 

Aging S22 

to Clean 205 

Phosphate Dental Cement 163 
of Casein and its Pro- 
duction 143 

Phosphor Bronze 58 

Photographers' Ointment. .487 

Photographs 554 

Phosphorus Poison ... 96, 014 
Photographic Developing 

Papers BZ "[ 

Mountants 

Photographing on Silk. ...540 
Photographs Enlarged ...542 

on Brooches 5 f 

Transparent '™ soa 

Photography. *23, *f 

witnout Light to? 

Piano Polishes 598 

Piccalilli Sauce f | 

Pickle for Brass «| 

for Bronze *a2i 

for Copper 

for Dipping Brass 

Brass like Gold. 132 

bef °. r . e 805 



39 
.475 



to Affix Labels to Tin 
Pasteurization of Milk 
Pasting Celluloid on Wood 86 
Paper Signs on Metal . - 3" 
Wood and Cardboard on 

Metal , 37 

Pattern Letters and 

Figures, Alloys for .. 80 
Paving Brick, Stain for ..166 

Patent Leather iS \ 

Leather Dressings 440 

Polish 6 H 

Preserver 

Stains for *g? 

Patina of Art Bronzes ..584 
Oxidizing Processes - 

Patinas ■• 

Peach Extract 

Tint Rouge 231 

Pearls, to Clean 208 

Peeling of Paints 501 

Pegamoid 50 -J 

Pencils. Antiseptic 90 

„ for Marking Glass 874 

Pen Metal 74 

Pens, Gold 383 

Peppermint as a Flavor. .252 

Pepsin Phosnhato I 12 , 

Percentage Solution, 509, 704 
Perfumer! Ammonia Water 91 
Fumigating Pastilles . -B07 
Pastilles 520 



.584 
.584 
. .817 



522 
540 
555 
561 
392 
, 69 
,817 
.110 
.320 



Pickling Brass 
Iron Scrap 

Enameling . . 

of German-silver *™' m 

cles "453 

Process 2 14 

Spice . .. • «.••■/•*•* .186 

picric Acid Stains s32 

Picture Copying - £37 

Postal Cards 251 

Transferrer 

Pictures, Glow ••' 

Pigment Paper 

Pi-merits " 

Lemonade • 

Pine Syrup a r'uf f 
Pine-tar D a n Q ..bbu 

Shampoo . .-■ ;...110 

Pins-pong Frappe 787 

P ink n Caffl Z ed"SaniW fl3 

Powder . ■ ■ ■ • .042 

Color on Silver sn 

pye for Cotton ; an 

for Wool . .731 

p«ea^;«* :: ::::S 

Purple Gold ...487 

saive ess 



Wheels . 

Pipe-joint Cement !l82 

Pipe Leaks 445 

to Color a Meerschaum. 468 
Pipes, Rust-preventive for 025 

Pistachio Essence .317 

Plain Rubber Cemeat .... 34 

Plant Fertilizers saa 

Preservatives A 845 

Parasites 501 

Plaster 501 

Articles. Repairing of . . 27 

Cast of Coins' 150 

Casts, Preservation of, 505 
for Foundry Models ...594 
from Spent Gas Lime ..594 

Grease 463 

Irritating 438 

Model Lubricant 463 

Mold 152, 564 

Objects, Cleaning of. ...564 
of Paris, Hardening, 

32, 150, 564 

Repairing 27 

Plastic Alloys 64 

and Elastic Composi- 
tion 150 

Metal Composition ...... 65 

Paint 502 

"Wood 565 

Polishing Paste 600 

Platina, Birmingham 55 

Plate Glass, Removing 

Putty 

Pewter vv,;*V 75 

Plates, Care of Photo- 
graphic 5 *» 

for Engraving ..... 71 

Platine for Dress Buttons 80 

Plating v-'Vn'-A--- 565 

Gilding and Electro- 

typing. |88 

of Aluminum 

Platinizing 

Aluminum 

Copper and Brass 

Platinotype Paper 

velopmenc ^ 

Silver " fl <j5 

$K to"Sep a Vate Sil- e4i 

ver from 26 4 

Pla ^ 9 D . C Car r ds to 'Clean: .209 
P,av,n * C Cards,To Var-^ 



.530 
73 



Flaying 
Playing 



nish ...181 
Plumbers* Cement ..... m 

Spots from »fl 

?SouI y Fi^:; :: : 8 S; 

PoTo»dot^"fbT Q ,.. e |l 



F *V:«; : v-i::::SJ 
;;.,«« 

. , .509 



per, etc. • ■ 



INDEX 



Polishes for Glass 593 

for Ivory, Bone, etc ...SOS 

for Pianos S9C 

for Silverware GOG 

for Steel and Iron 597 

for Hie Laundry M l 

for Wood . 598 

or Glazes for Laundry- 
Work .444 

Polishing Agent 5f)9 

Bricks GOO 

Cloths, to Prepare 509 

Creara COO 

Mediums 600 

Pastes 595 

for the Nails 227 

Powders 501 

Soaps 59 1 

olychroming of Figures. 501 

omade, Putz 203 

omades 227, 392 

Colors for 228 

for the Lips 223 

omegranate Essence ....317 

oppy Oil 431 

-seed Oil, Bleaching 1 of. 459 

orcelain goi 

How to Tell Pottery ...173 
Letters, Cement for ... 19 
Production of Luster 

Colors ,172 

Stains, To Remove 002 

ortland Cement 102 

ositive Colors 550 

ostal Cards, How to 

Make 537 

How to Make Sensitized 539 
otassium Amalgams, Ap- 
plications of 80 

Silicate as a Cement ... 19 

otato Starch 680 

ottery 173 

and Porcelain, How to 

Tell 173 

Bodies and Glazes 1C7 

Metallic Luster on 173 

to Cut ie4 

oultry Applications 419 

FoDdg and Poultry Dis- 
eases and Their Reme- 
dies , 733 

Lice Destroyer "410 

»nc» ' 189 

owdered Camphor in Per- 

nianent Form 144 

Cork as a Preservative. 606 

Nail Polishes 226 

owder, Blasting ;j 80 

J-ace , .242, 243, 701 

ror Cleaning Glove3 105 

for Colored Fire3 ... 009 

for Gilding Metals 579 

for Hardening iron 427 

Roup ' 734 

to Keep Moths Awav ' 425 
to Weld Wrought ir"on 
S;K|J Heat with 
Wrought Iron .. 7A1 
owdem for Stamping WW an 
for the Toilet . V±l 
reservation and Use" of 

ofSsr 1« 

ofcarpet 3 \n 

o?g^ ines •"»:"! 

Of Pag 2 84 

ofPru1r l V mon Jui ^ "5 
ur truit Juices ni* 

of Meats 

of Milk * ?59 

^piaster c^ite 



Preservation of Syrups ...701 
of Wood 776 

of Yeast 736 

Preservative Fluid for Mu- 
seums 002 

for Stuffed Animals ...002 

Preservatives 002 

Preservatives, for Leather 452 

Prairie Oyster 116 

Preparation of Amalgams 8 5 

of Brick Colors 165 

of Ca rbol i n emu 147 

of Catgut Sutures ......155 

of Celluloid 158 

of Emulsions of Crude 

retroleum 521 

of Enamels 308 

of French Bronze 136 

of Syrups 702 

of Uninflammable Cellu- 
loid 157 

Preparations of Copper 

Water 221 

Prepared Mustards of 

Commerce 214 

Preparing Bone for Fer- 
tilizer 338 

Preparing Emery for Lap- 
ping 289 

Preservative* for Stone ...002 
Preservatives for Paste., 38 

for Shoe Soles nss 

for Zoological and Ana- 
tomical Specimens ...602 
Preserved Strawberries . .605 

Preserving Antiques 08 

Preserving Eggs 285 

Eggs with Lime 285 

Mea,t, a G d r 111 a n 

Method SGi 

Pressure Table 704 

Preventing the Peeling of 

Coatings for Iron 427 

the Putrefaction of 

Strong Glues 11 

Varnish from Crawling. 717 
Prevent Decay to Teeth.. 705 
Prevention of Boiler Scale 122 

of Electrolysis 123 

of Fermentation 765 

of Foaming and Partial 
Caramelization of Fruit 

Juices , 311 

of Fogging, Dimming 

and Clouding 374 

Prickly Heat, Applications 

, for . 398 

Priming Coat for Water 

_ Spots 501 

Iron 493 

Print Copying '222 

Printing Ink, Savages . . ,409 

Inks .408 

Oilcloth and Leather in 

Gold 370 

on Celluloid lei 

on Photographs !s5l 

Printing-out Paper, How 

> to Sensitize 530 

Printing - roller Composi- 
tions 617 

Prints, their Preservation '. 30 9 
Process for Colored Glazes 165 
for Dyeing in Khaki 

Colors 275 

of Electroplating ..WW. 286 
of Impregnating Fabrics 

with Celluloid 101 

Production of Consistent 

Mineral Oils 434 

of Lampblack ....... 441 

of Luster Colors on Por- 
celain and Glazed Pot- 
tery 172 



Production of Minar- 

gent « 4 

of Rainbow Colors oa 

Metals 5fia 

of Substances Resembling 

Celluloid 158 

Properties of Amalgams] ' 85 
of Concrete Blocks 

Strength ' 695 

Protecting Boiler Plated 

from Scale 12 o 

Cement against Acid"" 9 
fa luffed Furniture from 

Moths 

Protection for Ceme ji t 

. Work 16a 

for Oil Paintings . . 400 
Protection of Acetylene 

Apparatus from Frost 363 
Protective Coating for 

Bright Iron Articles. .496 
Puffin ess under Eyes . 606 

Prussia Acid ' 93 

Pumice Stone ." 606 

Pumice-stone Soap , WW ' 6-18 
Pumillo Toilet Vinegar .'244 

Punch, Claret i l2 

Puncture Cement ""162 

Purification of Benzine "'l06 

Purifying-air 44 

Purifying Oils and Fats.. 335 

Rancid Castor Oil 153 

Water 740 

Purple and Violet Dyes ..269 

-Dye 269 

for Cotton 279 

far Silk 270 

Ink ....41B 

of Cassius 383 

Putty cos 

Acid-proof c<)7 

for Attaching Sign-let- 
ters to Glass 19 

for Celluloid .....161 

Nose 230 

Substitute for 60S 

to Remove ,206 
Powder, To Make. .... .608 

Pyrocatechin Developer ..528 
PyrogalHe Acid Stains ..185 
Pyrotechnics 008, 610 



Quadruple Extract Per- 
fumery 518 

Quince Extract S17 

Flip 115 

Quick Dryer for Inks Used 
on Bookbinders' Cases. 4 10 

Quick-drying Enamel 
Colors 722 

Quick -water 68 

Quilts, to Clean 194 

R 

Radiator Caps, to Cement 613 

Compound (Auto) 613 

Raspberry Essences 313 

Lemonade .110 

Sour H8 

Syrup 317, 318 

Rat Poisons 06, 613 

Ratsbane Poison 9 3 

Ravigotte Mustard 2 15 

Razor Paper 503 

Pastes 509, 615 

Recipes for Cold-stirred 

Toilet Soaps 653 

Recipes for Colored Peo- 
ple 393, 643 

for Pottery and Brick 

Work 1W 

for Soldering "<> 5 



INDEX 



875 



Re« 



S° P ?? oi 'Tin, andiron 



Sid Birds, IV 00 ^^ • ; .221 
E Cblorms .^/ffi Dyes.270 
Crimson and i 271 

Dye for G02 

Furniture Paste ••■ cg1 

Gold Enamel 22£) 

Grease I Jint . m 

Indelible Inks ___ 41C 

Ink 5815 

Patina . • . ■y amisU ,i \ n 
Russia Leauiei C15 

Reducer foi^Vtin Dry- 
^late Negatives :::;; .535 



Removing Window Frost.. 870 

Woody Odor a»8 

Rendering Parafnne Trans- 
parent 507 

Renovating a Camera ...553 

Wax Figures 750 

Old Parquet Floors 845 

Renovation of Polished 
Surfaces of Wood, 

etc 107 

Repairing Broken Glass . . 20 

Hectographs 396 

Rubber Goods 620 

Replacing Rubies -whose 
Settings have Deteri- 
orated 736 

Replathig 588 

with Battery 573 

Reproduction of Plaster 

Originals 535 

Resilvering 

of Mirrors 476 

Restoring Photographs ...544 



Reducers "u- 542 Restoring rnoragrapua 

Reducing Photographs . . .0*- Tarn isW Gold ..... ...196 

Refining Linseed OH ™* | i^^tlcm of Brass Arti- 



330 

Reflector weuat J J 

Refrigerants \..m 

iSfSaSS, Home-made.616 

linking Typewriter Rib-^ 

Relief Etching of c °PP er '„ 9 „ 

Steel, and Brass |2J 

Ground for - 

of Zinc ||| 

Remedies" "againsi- "Human 

Parasites * 

Mosquitoes 

for Dry Rot gj 

for Fetid Breath "J 

for Insect Bites 

Removable Binding . - .- - - l« 
Removal of AniUne-d>e 
Stains from the Skin. 184 

of Corns . ■ • • •• ^ R 

of Dirt from Parafiine ..508 
of Heat Stains from 
Polished Wood .......773 

of Iron from Drinking | 

-Water "41 

of Mustv Taste and 

Smell from Wine . .. .771 
of Odors from Wooden 
Boxes. Chests, Draw- 
ee etc 3? 

of Paint, from Clothing.. 193 
of Peruvian -balsam 

Stains : 

of Picric-aeid Stains is« 

of Rust ld J 

Removing Acid Stains .. .184 
and Preventing Match 

Marks 

Egg Stains 201 

Glaze from B m e r y 

Wheels 289 

Grease Spot's from Plush W 

Inground Dirt •?|5 

Ink Stains r ..Wg 

Iron Rust from Muslm.l'JJ 
Odor from Pasteboard.. 800 
Oil Spots from Leather. 2 06 
Oil Stains from Marble. 107 

Old Wall Paper +00 

Paint fTOm Wood 188 

Silver Stains 200 

Spots from Furniture . .2U« 
the Gum of Sticky Fly- 

paper B *° 

Varnish, etc l aa 



13' 
309 



.432 
. 64 
.460 
.180 
.306 
.711 
. 38 
.4«0 
.666 



Restoration of Brass 

cles 

of Old Prints 
Restoration of Spoiled 

Beer y^'. 

of the Color of Tur 

quoises 

Retz Alloy 

Revolver Lubricants 

Rhubarb for Cholera. .. 
Ribbon, Fumigating .. . . • 
Ribbons for Typewriters 

Rice Paste ■ 

Rifle Lubricants ....... ■ 

Ring, How to Solder .. 
Rings on Metal, Producing 

Colored ^ 

Riveting China ..... •■•••^ 
Roach Exterminators, 425, mw 

Rock-candy Syrup ™ 

Rockets 171 

Rockingham Glazes ™ 

Rodinal Developer - . - 
Roller Compositions for 

printers " m 

Roman Candles Q1J 

Roof P^ mt rf 9 t .- 1 T'av"*;''.39'' 
Roofs, How to k»T 8nlf 
Prevention of LeaKa B e 

Room Deodorizer ■ QJ 

Rope Lubricants _ S17 

Ropes •■• 753 

Waterproonng 17T 

Roquefort Cheese 

Rose's Alloy . .765 ! 

Rose Cordial ..115 

Cream ■ -, z.~r' " , . . .652 

Rose-Glycerine Soa| .. 

Rosemary Water _ gg0 

Hair . . .115 

Rose Mint ....278 

Pink Dye ....227 

Pomade . - • ■ ■ • ■ p o ;vder.2i3 

Poudro de Riz ro ...230 

powders ...5io 

Talc ...871 

Rose.tint Class ...«8 

Rosewood 783 

Ro S £ n Sh"eUac;--and ^ 
Soap m asVn-Emulsifler. ; g 

Sticks • - • ■ • ' jCfcracts. ■ - a58 

Tests fo r ;,™B e a u * y .*A 
Rottmanner s » e 244 

Water 0 V 8> 2 29, 230 

S Paris Red ■•••///.. .230 
palettes 



Rouge Powder eoo 

Tablets 230 

Theater 231 

Roup Cures 734 

Royai Frapp6 114 

Mist lis 

Rubber si 8 

and Rubber Articles . . .620 

Wood Fastened 22 

Boots and Shoe Cement, 23 

Cement for Cloth 24 

Cements 22, 34 

Gloves, Substitute for. . .100 

Testing 622 

Goods, Repairing 620 

Its Properties and Uses 

in Waterproofing 748 

Scraps, Treatment of ..631 

Softening ..621 

Stamps 622 

Varnishes 724 

Ruby Settings 737 

Rules for Varnishing . . . -717 

Rum, Bay 104 

Ruoltz Metnl 64 

Russet Leather Dressing. . 449 

Russian Leather ....454 

Polishing Lac .*ll 

Rust Paints 

Paper .6^ 

Rust, Prevention for Iron 

Pipes ; - 6 

Preventive for Tools, 



etc. 



.02 



Removers 193, 19 

Preventives 

Rusty Pieces, to Separate- 



Saccharine in Food 

Sachet Powders . „ 

Safety in Explosives jjj B 

pSioV"MaW:::::};j 



in 



Food 



.258 
.349 
.654 



.526 
.623 
.629 
.483 
.628 
. .150 



Sage Cheese 

Salicyl, Sweet 

Salicylic Acid 

Soap • • • • • • ' •' V e 0 f 

Saltpeter (Nitrate ^ 

potash) 

Salts, Effervescent 

Smelling 

Salt, Uses for 

Salve 

Sand . .... „" 

Hales in Brass .. 150 
jn Cast-brass wor* ^ 
Sand-lime BricK fl54 
Sand Soap 'V' Adhesion of 

to sL r rtf 4& s 

Sandstone Cements J0 
Coating • v,VcAifs from 198 

Sanl-Tex Fioo""" ..345 
sitlon ■■ + n nth'FasteS.257 
Saponaceous Tooth r ^ 

Sarsaparilla 118 

Beer 



Tablo 



358 



l^^tte 'Color -•• • ■ v; " " " ; 4 o9 
I S Printing Ink 9 g 

&aviiB^ nnlenn 

' '.!l2<* 
"..8S8 
' .653 



^ vil J°/for°Je W Wlers 
Sawdust for J 

sSn B BlueDye -. for 
* duction 



INDEX 



c in Boilers 122 

Insects, Extermination 

of 423 

on Orange Trees . . . . 423 

Cleaner 205 

les and Tables 547 

Wash ass 

let Lake Dyes 277 

Ih Lac Dyo 271 

iffmann's Asthma Pow- 
der 101 

Scirsors Hardening: CSS 

Scotch Beer 118 

Sera tell Brushing: 570 

Screws , ...G20 

Bluing 082 

in Watches 738 

Sealing (Burning) Trick., on 

Waxes 755 

Sea, Sickness 030 

Seasoning's 213 

Seed, Bird 120 

Seidlitz Salt ...028 

Self-igniting Mantles 405 

Seltzer and Lemon 11 0 

Lemonade 110 

Water 740 

Separating Silver from 

Platinum Waste 641 

Serpents, Pharaoh's S30 

Serviettes Magiques 59 fi 

Setting of Tools ....70s 

the Paint-brush Bristles. 141 

Sewer Gas eso 

Sewing Thread, Dressing 

for 70S 

Shades of Red, etc., on 

Matt Gold Bijouterie .431 
Shading Pen, Ink for .,..416 
Shampoo Lotions and 

Pastes 392, 303 

Soap 653 

Sharpening Pastes 500 

Stones 7fli 

Shaving Paste 'eso 

Soaps 6 , 19 

Sheep 734 

Sheet Brass 51 

Sheet-dips , " ' 2Si 

Sheet Metal Alloy . .' .* 71 

Lubricant 40,3 

Shellac " '71 0 

™^{f filing ;; G31 

bbell Cameos .030 

Imitation of " '429 

Polishes !* 593 

Shells, Lubricants f o r Re- 

ck t r; i w l? e *S8 

Sherbet, Egg 11 3 

£cl lns En S ine Brasses.'.' 031 
Who Liao" 32 

Ship Compositions ' and 

Paints 4.g 3 

Shoe Dressings 531 

Leather Dressing ../.'/45ft 

bb °f\ Blacking for B31 

Waterproofing 1*0 
Show Bottles . 127 

Show-case Signs 457 

Show Cases 335 

to Prevent Dimming' of '. 374 
Siberian Flip . . li s 

Siccatives ... ii? 
Sign Letters 2gX 
Sign-letter Cements i 8 
Signs on Show Cases "'417 
fil ? Repair Enameled 304 
Silicate of Oxychlorlde 
Cements > r 

iiik° n Exon * e ' ■ • 01 

paing*;;::;: -III 

Sensitizers for Photo- 
grapbic Purposes 540 



Silver ....689 

Alloys 75 

Amalgam 88, CO 

Bromide Paper, Toning 

Baths for 641 

Bronze 71 

Silver-coin Cleaner 200 

Silver, Copper, Nickel, and 

Zinc Alloys 70 

Etching Fluid for 324 

Fizz 115 

Foil Substitute 474 

Gray- Dye for Straw ...269 

Stain 783 

Imitation 77 

Ink 884, 416 

Nitrate Spots, to Re- 
move 194 

Test for Cottonseed 

Oil 482 

Ornamental Designs on. on 

Silver-plating 574, 587 

Silver Plating Powder 642 

Solder for Enameling. .424 

for Plated Metal 434 

Solders 663 

for Soldering Iron, 
Steel, Cast Iron, and 

Copper 603 

Testing ..642 

to Clean 204 

to Color Pink 643 

to Recover Gold from. . .382 
Silvering by Oxidation ...583 

Bronze 587 

Copper 587 

Glass Balls, Amalgam 

for so 

Glubes 641 

Globes 470 

of Mirrors 470 

Powder for Metals 642 

Silver-plating, and De- 
silvering 587 

Test for e-12 

Silverware Cleaner ..... ,200 

Polishes 596 

Wrapping Paper for ..506 

Silver-zinc 75 

Similor , " t , 03 

Simple Coloring of Bronze 

Powder 134 

Test for Red Lead and 

Orange Lead .446 

Way to Clean a Clock. 207 
Smews, Treatment of . 11 1 

Sinks, to Clean 202 

Size Over Portland Ce- 
ment g] 

Sizing ....... 38 

Walls for Kalsomi'ne.'!.'."436 
Skin Bleaches, Balms, etc, 

„ . 234, 613 

Chapped 232 

Skm-Blcach for Negroes,. 543 
i>km - cleaning P r e p a r a- 

c , . t'ons 184 

bkin Cream 239 

Discoloration ... '235 

foods 281,5114 

Motion 234 

Ointments ' " " 4g 7 

Troubles "iua 

siate .;; Ill 

Dye for Silk 'ggg 

for Straw Hats 200 

Parchment 500 

gltfles for Lanterns ..532, 643 
Mipcoat or Soft Cheese ..177 

Slugs on Roses 423 

Smaragdine "45 

Smelling Salts 81*0**628 

bmokeless- Powder S20 

Vari-colored Fire ... 609 



Smut, Treatment for , 304 

Snake Bites „e, 043 

Soap, Benzoin e 52 

Suap-bubbJe Liquids 655 

Soap, Coloring 1S4.1 

Flakes ""ess 

for Surgical Instruments '053 
for Garment Cleaning e45 

Perfumes >520 

Polishes 59 , 

Powder, Borax C49" 650 

Substitutes 

c Tooth 

Soaps qa, 

and Pastes for Gloves "195 
for Clothing and Fabrics 191 
Soda, Coffee Cream 

Water "'lit 

Soda-water Fountain 

Drinks 

Sodium, Amalgams, Appli- 
es 



cations of 



Salts, Effervescent . . . . 627 
Silicate as a Cement'"' i& 
Soft Enamels for Iron, 

White '305 

German-silver Solder ...mi 

Glaze Brick 105 

Gold Solder , '434 

Metal Castings ....... 

Silver Solders '55* 

Soldering Paste '.667 

Solder , g6l 

Toilet Soaps .652 

Softening Celluloid 10a 

Rubber . .621 

Steel 687 

Solder, Copper 659 

for Articles which will 
not Bear a High Tem- 
perature 005 

for Brass Tubes 359 

for Fastening Brass to 

Tin 659 

for Gold 434 

for Iron , 665 

for Silver Chains 664 

for Silver-plated Work ..664 

for Silversmiths 664 

from Gold, to Remove .383 

Soldering, Acids 656 

a Ring Containing a 

Jewel 436, 886 

Block 637 

Soldering, Concealed 005 

of Metallic Articles 656 

of Metals 655 

Fluxes for 660 

Paste ,...667 

Powder for Steel 0G5 

Recipes 085 

Solution for Steel 005 

without Heat 606 

Solders ...655 

for Glass 662 

for Gold 434 

for Jewelers 136 

for Silver 434 

Solid Alcohol 45 

Cleansing Compound ...209 

Linseed Oil 483 

Solidifieu Lubricants ....462 

Soluble Blue 443 

Essence of Ginger 314 

Extract of Ginger Ale ..108 
Glass, Bronzing with . -1 3 £ 

Gun Cotton . 333 

Solution for Removing Ni- 
trate of Silver Spots -19* 
Solutions for Batteries . -- 10 * 
for Cleaning Metals •♦■gW 

Percentage • ■ ■ "„* 

Solvent for Iron Rust ...fjl 
Soot Removers 00 ' 



INDEX 



877 



608 
256 



SOUP JT'of"' Potable Al- 

s° ur Soi 

Sozodpnt ■ • ■ • ■ " p irew orks 600 
|SrV S m e the Finger^ 



Tips 

Cordial • ?3 2 



.011 
. .457 
. .730 



Spavin 
Spearmint 



Spear for BricKs.ior 

Ifjflc Gravity. Test 



Metal 



Compote. 



Sponpes 
as Filters 



73 
CO.*) 
214 
358 
213 
678 
78-1 
02 
611 



Speculum f 

Spice foi 1 

Ja? A g duiteVated 

Sp £rFlavoring_ : ... Vc - oVi 

ftSteO* Salts Poison.. 
Spints Vp,. i( ,k piazing .. 

Sponge r iick, ■ » Q7S ) 

"Window Display • 073 

!^33D 

* "jt * " 67Q 

Sterilization of 21Q 

Spot S Stain Removers.185 

Sp^t 1 ?* on' Photographic 

Plates 730 

Sprai n Washes ;; 7 103 
Sprav Solution 

% n \ShS UI * '.v.::::: ess 

Spring of batches «7 

to Clean • • ■ ; " 

Sprinkling Powders for 
Flics » »■*•**■ ■• - * * *■ * rt 

ture 

Squill Poisons 

Stage Decorations, 

proofing 

Stain, Brick -■ 

for Blue Paving Bricks. 106 
Stain-removing Soaps •••■^ 

Stained Ceilings 

Staining Horns 

Stains 

for Lacquers 

for Oak Leather 

for Patent Leather £j2 

for Wood •■• 7S1 

Attacked by Alkalies 

or Acids W> 

Stamping ........^ 

Colors for Use with Bub- 

ber Stamps n7J 

Stamping Liquids and 

Powders ■.'■■Sift 

Powder for Embroideries 680 
Starch 445, 680 



.013 



Fire- 



in Jelly, Tests for ... 

Luster 

Paste 

Powder 

Starch-producing Plants 

Statuary Bronze 

Statue Cleaning 

Statuettes, Cleaning of 

of Linowitz Metal 
Steam Cylinder Lubricant. 40 i 

Steel 881 

Alloys "J 1 

for Drawing Colors on 80 
for Locomotive Cyl- 
inders Jll 

, and Iron Polishes 597 

Blue and Old Silver on 

Brass 18° 

Bluing 082 

...... 01 



Steel, Browning of .......682 

Cleaner iB9 

Coloring osa 

Distinguishinglronfrom 427 
Dust as a Polishing 

Agent 000 

Etching 323 

on 087 

Fragments 087 

Steel-hardening Powder . .427 

Steel, Oxidized 584 

Paint for 497 

Plating 575 

Polishes 597 

Soldering 1 065 

Stainless . PR7 

to Clean .199 

Tools, to Put an Edge 

on 680 

Wire Hardening 684 

Stencil Inks 411 

Marking Ink that will 

Wash Out 300 

Stencils for Plotting Let- 
ters of Sign Plates ..200 

Stereochromy 689 

Stereopticon Slides 532 

Stereotype Metal 77 

Sterilization of Sponges . .679 
of Water with Lime 

Chloride 741 

Sterling Silver 434 

Stick Pomade 228 

Sticky Fly-papers 347 

Fly Preparations *^ 

Stilton Cheese ... 
Stone, Artificial . 

Cements 

Cleaning 
preservative for 
Stones for Sharpening^^ ^ 

(Precious), Imitation of 370 

Stoneware . ■ ■ „» 

and Glass Cements .... f 
Waterproof Cements for 21 
Stopper Lubricants . M 700 
Store Windows, to Clean. 209 

Stove, Blacking ; " ie s 

Cement jj03 

Cleaners 44J 

Lacquer V 9 V 70 o 

Polish 597, J 2Y 

Varnishes . ■ • ; _■ • y f or ! l 02 
Stramonium, Antidote ^ 

Strap L u ^' ca p res 'erved "..605 
Strawberries, PreserveQ ^ 

Strawberry Essence glg 

Juice I...227 

Pomade 120 

Straw. Blenching y uB 

Fireprooflng ■ • ■ ■ • • ■ 187 
Straw-hat Cleaners •♦; • * > 7fl p 



.177 
.688 
. 10 
.196 
.602 



Substitute for Benzine . . .108 
for Camphor in the 
Preparation of Cellu- 
loid and Applicable to 

Other Purposes 157 

for Cement on Grinder 

Disks 81 

for Cork 224 

for Fire Grenades 341 

for Gum Arabic 388 

for Putty 698 

for Rubber Gloves .100 

for Soldering Fluid 059 

Substitutes for Coffee . . , .210 

for German Silver 70 

for Wood 785 

Suffolk Cheese 177 

Sugar-producing Plants ..668 
Sulphate of Zinc Poison. . 97 

Stains, to Remove 186 

Sulphuric Acid Poison ... 92 

Summer Driuk 118 

Taffy 217 

Sun Bronze 61 

Cholera Mixture 179 

Sunburn Remedies — 240, 241 
Sunflower-glycerine Soap.. 653 
Superfatted Liquid Lano- 
lin-glycerine Soap . . . 647 

Sutures of Catgut 155 

Sweeping Compound 701 

Sympathetic Inks 412 

Syndeticon • 

Syrup of Bromoform 134 

(Raspberry) 8VJ 

Table ^vlli 

Syrups sai « Vi l 

Szegedin Soap 615 



.857 
.399 
. 35 
.081 
..668 
. 57 
.197 
.564 
.. 64 



Table" of Drops - • *™ 

1 h U o C w in g " SjwW^ 
on Ground Glass of 
Objects in Motion . 

Top, Acid-proof j 

Tables " 5i <j 

and Scales 547 

for Photographers « 

Tablet Enameling ■•*+^"i7Q 

Glue for ; 2l7 

Taffy ••vAVNi; 164 

Tailor's CaalK _ 243 

Talc Powder ■■ 'i.,243 

Talcum Powder ...83* 

Tallow "... . 69 

Talmi. Gold ■ ■ • e t e 
Tamping of c 0 n c r . . 6 95 
Freckle' Lotion ..2*1 
T \Vd nd RuBSet Shoe e3g 
polishes 



Stripping Gilt Aruae ^ 

Photograph ™* . M 39 
Strong Adhesive F^-fJ; ^ 
Cement 223 



705 

Tank •••„•■' lil' I - 'ijve for. 447 
Tanned Leather, uye 458 

Tanning \] 454 

ffirS^araV.-^;^ 

Twine . •V.'nmV* V..- 86 Tar C^^^tor Oil -, 153 

Strontium Amalgams ;;: __ 6i 5 Tasteless Castor Rem(jva , 



Stropping Pf^ Vomica 96 
Strvchnine or mux * ,...614 

Poisons • p re - 
Stuffed Animals. ^ <002 

Styp^astV of <^ 0l 

fayP percha ?01 

Styptics ■■■• T T*ed" for Oe- 



.678 



Tattoo Mark 3 
of 

ffi^ract 
Hot 



705 
. .448 
..819 
..118 

Ten -Me ^c^wder...^ 
colored 



ape Metal , 71 

nperature for Brushes. 140 

* Metal 152 

of Water for Tlants 561 

Tempered Copper 221 

Tempering Brass 132 

Termites, To Prevent 101 

Terra Cotta Cleaning ....187 

Substitute 70S 

Test for Glue 10 

Testing Nickel 481 

Rubber Gloves 022 

Siccatives G37 

Silver 642 

Steel 087 

Tests for Absolute. Alcohol 45 
for Aniline in Pigments. 560 

for Cotton 245 

for Lubricants 463 

for Radio Transformer. .706 

Textile Cleaning — 191 

Theater Rouse 2 31 

The Burning Banana .,..611 
Gum-bichromate Photo- 
printing Process 546 

Preservation of Books ..124 
Prevention of the In- 
flammability of Ben- 
zine 108 

Therapeutic Grouping of 
Medicinal Plasters , . .561 

Thermometers 706 

Thread 706 

Three-color Process 548 

Throat Lozenges 218 

Thymol 100 

Ticks, Cattle Dip for 419 

Tiers-Argent Alloy 75 

Tiieroakers' Notes 164 

Tin 40, 70s 

Alloys 77 

Amalgams, Applications 

° f 87 

Ash 173 

Bismuth, and Magnesium 40 

Bronzing 

Chloride of Tin, Poison. 97 
Tinctures for Perfumes ..513 
Tin, Etching Fluid for ...324 

Tinfoil 707 

Tin Foils for Capsules .""474 
for Wrapping Cheese. 474 

tin m Powder Form 707 

Tin-lead , 77 

Alloys . ] 7g 

Hnned Surface ...'.'."..""589 

inning '" 5a4 

by Oxidation ' '53,! 

£ ? Iatin S by Electric 



Bath 



575 

of Lead Sao 

Tinseled Letters or Chi- 
nese Painting on 

Glass ° 4 ea 

Tin Silver-Plating' ""IS 
Solders 7,21 

Statuettes, Buttons,* etc. 78 

Varnishes 

T|PPmg Gold Pens ."."."S 

cements":;:;;;:;; ? 3 

Tire Paint ... J? 
Tissier's Metal *«\ 
Tissue Paper, Paste 'foi" 
rtain whether 



1 jssue Paper, Paste' for 37 
To Ascertain whether an 
ffi 13 „ Nickeled, 
Attach ec k or Silvered . '.589 



Gold^L'eaf ' PcVrnV 41 
nently rerma- 

Tobir, Bronze 4 ™ 



INDEX 



Tobacco Poison 97 

To Bronze Copper 130 

Burnish Gilt Work 364 

Caseharden Locally . ...681 

Cist Yellow Brass 51 

Cement Glass to Iron ..17 

Clarify Liqueurs 770 

Solutions of Gelatin, 

Glues, etc 370 

Turbid Orange Flower 

Water 512 

Clean a Gas Stove 202 

Aluminum 204 

Articles of Nickel 201 

Brushes of Dry Paint. 188 

Colored Leather 180 

Dull Gold 204 

Files 205 

Fire-gilt Articles 185 

Furs J?G8 

Gilt Frames, etc 185 

Gilt Objects 203 

Gold and Silver Lace. 193 
Gummed Parts of Ma- 
chinery 203 

Gummed-up Springs ..207 

Jet Jewelry 431 

Lacquered Goods ....195 

Leather Chairs 210 

Linoleum 206 

Milk Glass 209 

Mirrors 209 

Oily Bottles 210 

Old Medals 190 

Painted Walls 1D0 

Paintings 195 

Petroleum Lamp Burn- 
ers 200 

Playing Cards 209 

Polished Parts of Ma- 
chines 201 

Quilts 194 

Silver Ornaments ....201 
Skins Used for Polish- 
ing Purposes 186 

Soldered Watch Cases. 207 

Sponges 210 

Store Windows 209 

Tarnished Zinc 205 

the Tops of Clocks in 

Repairing 20 

Tongue 708 

Toilet Bowls 210 

Very Soiled Hands ..185 

Watch Chains 20G 

Waste Pipes 21 0 

Windshields 210 

Wool 273 

Zinc Articles 203 

Coat Brass Articles with 

Antimony Colors 581 

Color a Meerschaum 

Pi.Pe 469 

Billiard Balls Red ...42a 

DronzO jgg 

Gutter :.:::;35s> 

Cheese ggg 

Gold ; , ; ; ' 

Iron Blue *427 

Ivory ' 4 i, s 

Conceal Soldering .'ees 
Copper Aluminum ... 581 
Copy Old Letters, etc... 223 

Cut Castile Soap 644 

Glass 37I 

Cut Glass under Water. 372 

Pottery lfl4 

Toddy, Hot Soda 112 

To Detect Artificial Va- 
nillin in Vanilla Ex- 



.713 



tracts 

the Presence" of" Ani- 
line in a Pigment.. 500 



To Detect Tonka in Va- 
nilla Extract 71 » 

Determine the Covering- 

Power of Pigments 
Dissolve Copper from 
Gold Articles 38a 

Distinguish Cotton from 

Linen . 24fl 

Genuine Diamonds "geo 
Glue and Other Adhe- 

sives 

Iron from Steel . 'A* 
Steel from Iron . '^t. 

Do Away with Wiping 
Dishes b ,„ a 

Drain a Refrigerator" " m l 

Drill Optical Glass .. 373 

Dye Copper Parts Vio- 
let and Orange . 221 
Cotton Dark Brown' " 

Feathers » R , 

Felt Goods ".'"28I 

Silk a Delicate Green- 
ish Yellow 280 

Silk Peacock Blue .'"^si 
Stiffen and Bleach Felt 

Hats 273 

Woolen Yarns, etc 
Various Shades of 

Magenta 280 

Woolens with Blue de 
Lyons .280 

Eat Burning Coals 612 

Estimate Contents of a 
Circular Tank . 705 

Extinct Oil Spots from 

Finished Goods 273 

Shellac from Fur 

„ Hats 394 

Fasten Brass upon Glass 17 
Paper Tickets to Glass 19 
Rubber to Wood .... 23 

Fill Engraved Letters on 
Metal Signs 457 

Find the Number of 
Carats 432 

Fire Paper, etc., by 
Breathing on it . Gil 

Fix Alcoholic Lacquers 
on Metallic Surfaces. .440 
Dyes 274 

Gold Letters, etc., 

upon Glass 18 

Paper upon Polished 

Metal 07 

Iron in Stone 162 

Fuse Gold Dust 384 

Give a Brown Color to 

Brass 130 

a Green Color to Gold 

Jewelry 582 

Brass a Golden Color. 577 
Dark Inks a Bronze or 
Changeable Hue ...409 

Grind Glass 372 

Harden a Hammer 684 

Hard-solder Parts For- 
merly Soldered with 

Tin Solder 

Impart the Aroma and 
Taste of Natural But- 

ter to Margarine 1 43 

Improve Deadened Brass 

Parts I 33 

Increase the Toughness, 
Density, and Tenacity 

of Aluminum °° 

Toilet Bowl, to Clean. 210, 70S 

Toilet Creams 235, 792 

Milks 2 39 

Powders ■ 2^2 

Preparations 225. 792 



■ 



INDEX 



G50 

Toilet Soaps ......... M4 

7 Vinegar 9 ...214, 518 

-Waters „ .,..888 
To Keep K wree from 
1 Flaxseed 1 424, 

? ugS from" "F r esh , 
plies . flom 501 

Ice 111 hI11 ...402 

„ tj® f't' Liquid 
India -l^i- W ork- 

^aS Movement 

Tombac Color o. u .10G 
1° r&»* B St*e Cor- 738 

for Glass ....<•••• lg0 



impermeable 



10 
382 
372 



Cider 

C °aad k Acid ; proof . 
TTat Oil Gold Size . 
Holes in Thin Glass 
£S5 Nails in Walls 39g 

PlS^AdlieretoMeiai 500 
Matt Gilt Articles -■■■■'}g| 

Mend Grindstones S86 

Wedgwood Mortars . . 29 
Tonic for Flabby Flesh ..103 

Tongue, to Clean ]f 

Toning Baths • 

for Silver Bromide 

Paper *M 

Black Inks 

Tonka Extract 
Its Detection m \anina 

Extracts 

Tool Lubricant f l 

Setting fig 5 

; Tools, Rust Prevention . .625 

Toothache 509 ' ™" 

Tooth Cements .••■vrV 

Paste to be put in Col- 
lapsible Tubes •257 

Pastes, Powders, and „„ 1 

"Washes 

Powder for Children . .2*5 
Powders and Pastes . 

Soaps and Pastes 25; 

Straightening 

To Overcame Odors in 
Freshly Prepared 

Rooms ■■c Am 

Paint Wrought Iron with 

Graphite ;- 406 

Paste Paper on Smooth 

Iron 61 

Pickle Black Iron-plate 
Scrap Before Enamel- 

ing . 805 

Polish Delicate Objects.. 599 
Paintings on Wood . -B00 
Prepare Polishing Cloths 599 

Preserve Beef B0 ,o 

Furs s ™ 

Milk «W 

Steel from Rust .... .189 
Prevent Crawling of 

Paints 490 

Dimming of Eye- 
glasses, etc s ™ 

Glue from Cracking . ■ 10 
Screws from Rusting 
id Becoming Fast. 629 



To Prevent Smoke from 

Flashlight 552 

the Adhesion of Model- 
ing Sand to Cast- 
ings ISO 

the Trickling of Burn- 
ing Candleg 145 

Wood Warping 731 

Wooden Vessels from 

Leaking 446 

Produce Fine Leaves of 

Metal 473 

Protect Papered Walls 

from Vermin 401 

Zinc Roofing from 

Rust «2S 

Purify Bismuth i 

Put an Edge on Steel 

Tools 085 

Quickly Remove a Ring 
from a Swollen 

Finger 4,31 

Reblack Clock Hands . .788 
Recognize Whether an 

Article is Gilt 383 

Recover Gold-leaf Waste 381 
Reduce Engravings . ...310 
Reduce Photographs .-..548 
Refine Board Sweepings. 432 
Remedy Worn Pinions 

in Watches 7dB 

Remove a Name from a 

Dial ■; 

Aniline Stams ..... 
from Ceilings, etc. ..190 

Balsam Stains 19* 

Black Letters, from 
White 
Signs ; 
Burnt Oil from 

ened Steel . . - ■ ■ ■ • ■ ■ ' 
Enamel and 1 m 

Marks from 

etc 1SB 

..208 



879 

To Remove Stains of Sul- 

Phate_ 188 

Metal by 



.207 
.185 



Enameled 
Hard- 



.639 



.188 



.18 



Finger 
Books, 

SBSSS silver ....382 
§°r d ea f sT Spots from 
Marble oi-ViiV 

Oil-pamt Spots * ruui 209 
oSafnt' 'Spots- 'from 

Sandstones 189 

rnd Enamel Wi.V 

Old Oil, Paint, or Var- 
nish Coats .. . • ■ • ■ : 
Paint, Varmsh, etc.. 
from Wood 

Putty, Jf r ^rias9 ..20 6 
1 from, F ate Glassy- 

pvro Stains from ^ s&5 
Fingers ;..* ' V Ink" ' • - 190 

from iron u ^ e 



Strains in 

Heating . 
Varnish from Metal.. 188 
Vegetable Growth from 

Buildings 200 

Water Stains from 

Varnished Furniture 1B8 
Vaseline Stains from 

Clothing ig2 

Render Aniline Colors 
Soluble in Water . . . ,274 
Fine Cracks in Tools 

Visible ...,688 

Gum Arabic More Ad- 
hesive 43 

Negatives Permanent .553 
Pale Gold Darker ...383 
Shrunken Wooden 

Casks Watertight ..149 
Window Panes 

Opaque 875 

Renew Old Silks 274 

Renovate and Brighten 
Russet and Yellow 

Shoes 633 

Brick Walls 190 

Old Oil Paintings . ..488 

Straw Hats .187 

Repair a Dial, etc., with 
Enamel Applied Cold, 
a Repeating Clock- 
bell 

Enameled Signs B0 

Meerschaum Pipes ... 46 
Restore Brushes ■"•v«l*l 
Patent Leather Dash. 452 
Restore Reddened Car- 
bolic Acid •■■■••:;-:; 1 * 7 
the Color of a Gold or 

Gilt Dial If 

Burnt Steel 685 

Tortoise-shell Polishes ....593 
To Scale Cast Iron . 
Scent Advertising Mat 

ter 

Separate Rusty Pieces 
Silver Brass, 1 

GlarBailVand Plate^ 

Silve?plate'Me^''^:-588 

Soften Glaziers' P^--Jj; 

Horn . ■ • ; 427 

Iron Castings 6g 

Old Whitewash . • - 
Solder a Piece of Ha^^ 

in iroll , AI , 
pipes **? 



Rust 
sils 



203 



.737 



.204 

.510 
.625 



58T 



SUB " • * \VS*fra1 1D0, i»» 

Rust from Nickel, 482 

Reduce Fat .629 
Save Coal • ■ ,20a 

Sl White Fabrics ^ , 
Soft Solder from ^ 208 
gSK fr f°rom D Tracfng i93 

StSnffromiie'H-^ ^ 



ened Steel 
Stop Leakage. 

Ho t-Water P^ rier ll8 

Sweeten ^"""tiLd in 
Take BoilmB Leaa ....61S 

tbe Moutn . ■ - ■ ■ 
Te il Genuine Meer^ 

schaum ^""Coil o 
Temper »mft" 688 
Spr 4 n fr a ct of Ueorice.4S8 
Test Extract °i SyTU p9 
Fruit Juices a _ 8 2l 

for Anilme g 
Fruit Juices for » wl 

licylic Acid ■ • ■ lt 
the Color *o See u ^ 

S*,«*»" : :::::« 



Weaken ft Balnnce 

Spring 788 

hiton Flannels 440 

Iron 427 

Widen ft Jewel Hole ...431 
Tracing-cloth Cleaners ...19V 
Tracing Cloth, Removing 

Spots from 192 

Tracing, How to Clean ..104 

Taper y 50 .?, 

Tragacanth. Mucilage or. . 42 
Transferring Photos to 
Watch Cases and Dials 555 

Transfer Processes 710 

Transparencies 70U 

Transparent Candles 145 

Brick Glaze 107 

Ground Glass ■ 373 

Photographs 545 

Soaps ™z 

Trays, Varnish for 727 

Trapping Rabbits ...710 

Treatment and Utilization 

of Rubber Scraps 821 

of Bunions 221 

of Carbolic-acid Burns ..147 
of Cast-iron Grave 

Crosses 202 

of Corns -.225 

of Damp Walls 400 

of Fresh Plaster 504 

of Newly Laid Linoleum.459 

of the Grindstone 386 

Tricks with Fire • -COS 

Triple Extract Perfumery 518 

Pewter 7£ 

Tubs: to Render Shrunken 

Tubs Water-tight 14!) 

Turmeric in Food 352 

Turpentine Stains 784 

Turquoises, Restoration of 

the Color of 432 

Turtle (Mock) Extract . .212 

Twine : 711 

Strong 223 

Two - solution Ink Re- 
mover 189 

Type Metal 78 

Typewriter Ribbon Inks ..413 
Ribbons 711 



u 

Udder Inflammation 731 

Unclassified Allays 80 

Dyers' Recipes 273 

Unclean Lenses 456 

Uninflammable Celluloid. ..157 
United States Weights and 

Measures 75s 

Uniting Glass with Horn. 17 
Rubber and Leather ... 22 

Universal Cement 31 

Cleaner 209 

Urine, Detection of Albu- 
men .... 44 
Uses for Salt 029 

Utensils, Capacities of 703 

to Remove Rust 10s 

Utilization of Waste Ma- 
terial or By-products. 878 

V 

Valves m 

Vanilla I" 

Substitute 

Vanillin .... lit 
Vanishing Cream**: ; '. . [ . '. 'Am 

S? mad « 228 

v^fcn^r.?.::::;^ 



Varnish and Paint Re- 
in over 188 

Jtonkbinricrs' 720 

Brushes at Rest 141 

for Bicycles 719 

for Blackboards 720 

for Floors 724, 72SB 

for Trays and Tinware. 727 
Gums Used in Making.. 715 

How to Pour Out 153 

Making, Linseed Oil for 483 
Manufacturing Hints ..715 

Removers 187 

Substitutes 727 

Varnished Paper 500 

Varnishes ......543, 714-728B 

Engravers' 723 

Insulating 420 

Photographic Retouch- 
ing 543 

Varnishing, Rules for ...717 
Vat Enamels and Var- 
nishes 721 

Vegetable Acids, Poison . . C2 

Vegetables, Canned 852 

Vehicle for Oil Colors ...SCO 

Venetian Paste 39 

Vermilion Grease Paint.. 229 

Vermin Killer 422 

Very Hard Silver Solder. GCS 
Veterinary Dose Table ..729 

Formulas 728 

Vichy 740 

Salt .028 

Violet Ammonia .244, 245 

Color for Ammonia .... 91 

Cream 115 

Dye for Silk or Wool.. 270 
for Straw Bonnets . .270 

Flavor for Candy 217 

Ink 417 

Poudre de Riz Powder. 242 

Sachet 510 

Smelling Salts 510 

Talc 510 

Powder 248 

Tooth Powder ,.,252 

Water 520 

Witch Hazel , 245 

Vinaigre Rouge 244 

Vinegar 358, 734 

Toilet 244 

Viscose 159 

Vogel's Composition Files. R4 

Voice Lozenges 219 

Vulcanization of Rubber,. 822 

w 

Wagon and Axle Greases. 462 

Wall Cleaners 190 

Wall-paper Dyes 273 

Removal of 400 

Wall-paper Paste , 39 

Wall Priming 501 

Waterproofing 741 

Walls, Damp 400 

Hard-finished .499 

Walnut ,783 

Warming Bottle [127 

Warping, Prevention of. ..781 

warts 73(s 

Washes. Nail-cleaning ...227 

Washing Blanket9 390 

Brushes 141 

Fluids and Powders ...445 

of Light Silk Goods 0SD 

Waste, Photographic, Its 

Disposition ..534 

Waste Pipes, to Clean .,.210 

Watch Case Photo 555 

Watch Chains, to Clean .,20(1 

Watch-dial Cements 20 

Watch Gilding 733 



Watch-lid Cement .... 9( . 

Watchmakers' Alloys ' " Vtr 
and Jewelers* Cleaning 

Preparations 

Formulas ^ 

nil ' iia 

WJl 

Watch Manufacturers' '&U 

_ l°ys r < tt 

Movements, Palladium 

Plating of 5a „ 

Waterproof and Acid- 
proof Pastes ... 3f , 
Cements for Glass 
Stoneware, and Mctai 21 

Coatings 

Glues is 

Harness Composition 45*1 

Ink '«» 

Paints Al 

? a pe™ 

Pities m 

ROpeS 

Shoe Dressings 034 

Stiffening for Straw Hats' ' 187 
Varnish for Beach Shoes 531 

Wood 753 

"Waterproofing .'."tit 

Blue Prints \ "."74J 

Brick Arches '..".* ".741 

Canvas '743 

Cellars Y.'.'.'.m 

Corks 742 

Fabrics 743 

Leather " ] "75^ 

Paper * [ [ftji 

Water- and Acid-resisting 

Paint 499 

Water closets, Deodorants 

far 263, 70s 

Water, Copper 221 

Filters for 339 

Water-glass Cements 19 

Water Glass in Stereo- 
chromatic Painting . .C88 
Jackets, Anti - freezing 

Solutions for 383 

Natural and Artificial . .739 
Purification. Alum Proc- 
ess of 340 

Spots, Priming for 501 

Stains 784 

Water Stirred Yellow, 
Scarlet and Colorless. .012 

Water-tight Casks 149 

Glass 373 

Roofs 373 

"Water Tone" Platinum 

Paper 529 

to Freeze 618 

Varnish ...544 

Waters, Toilet 244 

Wax 753 

Burning, Trick eil 

Wax Fisriire Renovating. .758 

for Bottles 55 8 

for Ironing 444 

for Linoleum 459 

Paper 505 

Waxes for Floors, Furni- 
ture, etc 754 

Weather Forecasters ....756 

Weatherp roofing 493 

Casts SBa 

Weed Killers 101, 2^8 

Weights and Measures . - 7 ;> 7 

of Eggs 284 

Weiss Beer J J 2 

Welding Compound 8a7 

Powder to Weld Steel 
on Wrousrht Iron at 

Palc-rcd Heat ... £°J 

Powders 

Westphnlinn Cheese )il 

Wheel Crease " J 



■■■■■I 
INDEX 



Wine Color Dye 270 

Wines and Liquors 762 

Medicinal 771 

Removal of Musty 

Taste 771 

Winter Beverages ill 

Wintergreen, to Distinguish 
Methyl Salicylate from 

Oil of 486, 771 

Wire Hardening 084 

Hope 771 

Witch-hazel Creams 288 | 

JellV 228 

Violet 245 

Wood m 

Acid-prauf 9 

Cements 2Q 

Chlorine-proofing 9 

Fillers 773 

Fireproofing 842 

Wooden Gears 463 

Wood Gilding .580 

Wood Objects to Petrify.. ooo 

Polishes 598 

Pulp, Fireproofing 343 

Ren ovators ........ 1 94, 1 9 7 

Securing Metals to 37 

Stain for 781 

Substitutes for 

Warping, to Prevent ..781 

Waterproofing 73* 

Wood's Metal ........ »* 

Woodwork, Cleaning ....194 

W"0Ol qjj ,.......••«« .488 

Silk or Straw Bleachmg.120 

to Clean . . 2 ™ 

Woorara Poison »' 

"Worcestershire Sauce ... -213 
Working of Sheet Alumi- ^ 

Worm "powder' foV ' Stock 732 
Wrapping Paper 

verwars 

Wrinkles, Removal of 



.761 



.jetstones S47l 248 

rhipped Cream 55 

fp6 Brass 164 

Cosm ciiq^ • 243 

Face lo«« containing 
Flint Oiass ^ gF?3 

^ L niture" Enamcl"for..722 
jpurniturt;, ordinary 
Gl^ss ™L n " ....373 
Molded Bot * 167 
Glazes •■***:'* ^r it i lou t 

White-froW llates 384 

Solder . . - -U'LTf- 229 

?h ite Grease Faints 

Ink ■■ 78 

Petroleum Jelly ■ 

Portland Cement lb- 
Rose Perfumery { | 

ch„c Dressing b * J 

gger for Silver JW 

^Sbrfee^-:::::^ 

Vitriol, Poison Vj 

Whitewash , 90 

j-r 8 

wllS^hRcruedies 211 
Wild-cherry Balsam 

Extract 

Wiltshire Cheese 
Window - cleaning 

pound 

Window Display 

Panes, Cleaning ... 
Opaque, to Render 

Perfume 

Polishes fJ. 

Windows, Frosted .-•■•ri'jSS 
to Prevent Dimming of. 370 
Windshield Cleaner *w 



.103 
.321 
.177 



C O 111- 



203 
702 
208 
375 



881 



Writing on Zinc 405 

Restoring Faded 786 

Writing under Shell of 
Egg .78ft 



Yama n fi 

Yeast 78 ft 

and Fertilizers , 839 

Yellow Coloring for Bev- 
erages 119 

Dye for Cotton 371 

for Silk 271 

Hard Solders 958 

Ink 417 

Orange and Bronze Dyes 271 

Stain for Wood 784 

Ylang-Ylang Perfume ...518 
Yolk of Egg as an Emul- 

sifier 290 

York Cheese , 177 



Zapon 728 

for Impregnating Paper. 508 

Varnishes 728 

Zinc & 

Alloys ■••vr 80 

Amalgam for Electric 

Batteries......... 

for Dentists' Zinc ...163 
Amalgams, Applications 



of 



87 



.50S 



231, 233 

Writing Inks Vtfj/SJ 

on Glass m 

on Ivory, Glass, etc ...*":> ' 



Articles, Bronzing 136 

to Clean 

Bronzing ....137, » 

Contact Silver-plating . 

Etching 

Gilding 

Zinc-Nickel ' 

Zinc-Ointment 
Zinc Plates, Coppering . 

poison 

to Clean 



.589 
.323 
.580 
. 80 
,487 
.578 
. 97 
.205 



SUPPLEMENTARY INDEX TO RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 



Acid-proof Coatings 787 

Agricultural Insecticides . . 737 
Automobile Cleaner 787 

E 

Bath Salts 787 

Bleaching 788 

Hemp 788 

Silk 788 

Wool 788 



Casein 788 

Adhcsivcs , - • -788 

Paints and Varnishes. . .780 
Paper and Textile Sizes. 780 
Pharmaceutical and 

Food 789 

' Plastics 789 

Preparation 788 

"Synthetic Wool" 780 

Uses of 788 

Cellophane Adhesive 7!>« 

Cements 798 



798 

China 70s 

ESSSr^SK :. « 

Concrete Paint * 7 92-707 

Cosmetics . 793 

Astringents 793 

Cooling 793 

Lotion , 793 

Blackstick .792 

Cold Creams T93 

Mentholated. 7S > 2 

Lemon ■ - • - • , .'.794 

Cologne Water 79-1 

Compacts ■ ...792 

Creams - . ■ ^Wburn' 792 

Tan and Sunburn 7Q3 

Vanishing .793 

Cleansing , .70(5 

Dentifrices .: • Vi 'aner. -797 
False Teeth Cleane 
iodide Mouth Wasi • . 

Mouth Wasli 797 

Tartar Remover .. 79T 

Tooth Paste 707 

Tooth Powder 



Tooth Wash ^ 

Filce Bleach ■•^■•;;:;; 797 

Facial Clay Facie 794 

Face powders m 

Colors for .. 79l 

Sun Tan 797 

Freckle Remover < . 

Hair preparations ^ 

8$52afc:::S 

Eau de Q uin ":, 79<5 

Tint for Biir>« 

^cX* ****** 
tion .795 
Hair Bleach T O j- on ..790 

Hair Wajto6-Jg%.«ft 
permanent ^ ^ 795 



SnilS Sri Hantine . ■ 
!£y-cSb Prepara- 



tion 



.796 
.795 



HverSot rrc P araUon:.79T 



metics (Cant.) 

otlous 783 

Kor Perspiring- ...... 79S 

Frost Bite 793 

Red Nose 703 

Sunburn 793 

licure Preparations. .79'1 

Cuticle Remover 794 

K.iil Bleach 795 

Nail Enamel 794 

Nail Polish (Paste) .. .795 
Nail Polish (Pow- 
dered) 70S 

ail Softener 795 

nple Preparation ....797 



Deodorizing Kerosene ....798 

Dry Cleaning 798 

Dustproofing Tennis 

Courts ....799 



tching Paste 790 



Floor Dressing- for Mar- 
ble 799 



Javelle Water 799 

L 

acquer Formulations . . .800 

Baking Enamels 800 

Benzyl and Ethyl Cel- * 

Julose 800 

Cellulose Acetate .... 800 
Chlorinated Diphenyl.800 

Plasticizerg ...801 

Polymerized Acrylic 

Compounds 801 

Solvents 801 

M 

oth Repellent 855 

N 

aphtheuate Driers 855 

Nerve Desensitizer 855 

o 

ven Cleaner 355 

P 

a ,* nts 802-805 

Commercial Putty 805 

Dust Color for floors. '.'.'.80i 

House Paints .... g 0 2 

Lacquer Type Dressing. so 5 

KnS*. and Grinding . .802 
Uil Stains .... B05 

Preparation of Mixed! '. 
iyed Barn .... sn , 
Remover ,. 

Sss?* y.y.y.::ttt 

Top Dressing ™\ 

Touch up suck : ::::: 1o 

Varnish and Oil Enam- 
Varnlsh Remover 



Water Stains 805 

Photography 806 850 

Buyers of Photos 842 

Chemical Dictionary . 844-850 
Chemistry of Intensifica- 
tion and Reduction. . .820 
Blackening- Bleached 

Negative 822 

Intensification 821 

Mercury Type Formu- 
las 822 

Reduction 820 

Sodium Sulphite An- 
hydrous 823 

Colored Photography ...827 

Copyright Rights 839 

Cracked Prints, How to 

Copy 837 

Defects in Photographic 

Work B0 6 

Blistering 808 

Chemical Fog 808 

Different Kinds of 

Stains 800 

Double Exposures . . . .808 
Fine Scratches or 

Lines 807 

Fixing Bath 803 

Fog 808 

Frilling 803 

Hot Weather Trou- 
bles 803 

Local and Direct Fog. SOS 

Mottling 808 

Removing Hypo from 

Negative 806 

Removing Perinaga- 

nate Stains , .807 

Silvery White Opales- 
cence 806 

Small Dark Spots 807 

Small Transparent 

Holes 807 

Spots in Negatives. .. .807 
Spots of Angular 

Shape 807 

Yellowish. White Opal- 
escence 806 

Yellow or Brown 

Spots 807 

Depth Table for Ama- 
teur Cine Cameras. . . .831 

Developers 810 

Bromide Paper 815 

Contrast (D-2S), 815 

Crystallizing 811 

Deep Tank for Roll 

Films (D-18), 818 

Desensitizer Solutions. 820 
Discolored Solution ..811 

Exposure 813 

Fine Grain Developer 

for Miniature Films 813 
Fine Grain Develop- 
ing 812 

Fogging sn 

Frilling and Blister- 
ing 812 

Improper Mixing 812 
Motion Picture Films. 811 
Motion Picture Ncga- 

ttves 814 

1 anchromatic Desensi- 
tizing (Color Grada- 

t ion ) . ;v . B18 

Photographic Develop- 
ing • 810 

Rotogravure Tone .. 810 

Tank ..(D-Tfl), 815 

Tropical gn 

Trouble Chart 811 
Universal (D-72),' 8 l 5 

White Sediment .... 811 



Photography (Cont.) 

X-Ray Films . . , 01, 
Dictionary of Photo- 

graphic Chemicals 84.1-350' 
Enlarging Pictures on 

Walls, etc o,„ 

Enlargements, Table " of " 83-' 
Enlargements on Can- " 
.889 



Fixation 80(t 

Bath Does Not H'ar- 

den gi.^ 

Improper Mixing ' ' '. ' 824 
Insufficient Washing 
Scum on Surface of 



Bath 



.824 



Short Stops 825 

Staining of Prints . '. . 824 
Stains on Hands 825 
High Speed Films, Char- 
acteristics 329 

Agfa Isochrom 'gsg 

Gevart Express 829 
Perutz Persenso, 

Sclochrome 829 

Veri chrome ' | gaa 

Zeiss Ikon, Mimosa 
and Perutz Fine 

Grain g 2 g 

Zeiss Ikon U. R. Per- 

nox 820 

How to Turn Prints into 

Money 842 

Lenses 830 

Important Points 

about 830 

Miniature Camera . ...,82S 
Miscellaneous Formulas. 833 
Ground Glass Var- 
nish ...833 

Retouching Medium ..833 
Reversal of Image ...833 
Reversing Solution ...833 
Natural Color Photogra- 
phy 840 

New Photos from Old 

and Faded Ones 837 

Percentage Solutions ...834 

Printing on Metal 833 

Printing Photos on Fab- 
rics 825 

Printing Pictures on Let- 
terheads, etc 831 

Recovery of Silver from 

Hypo Solutions 836 

Retouching 837 

Reversal Development, 
for Movie projection. .835 

Toning 816 

Colored Picture Baths. 817 
Double (Dual Sepia) . .817 
Ferrotype Plates or 

Tins 818 

For Double Color . .. .815 
Squeegee Enamel ...■818 
Two Color Prints . . . SI 8 
Transferring Pictures on 

Glass ... 826 

on Leather 

Metal S28 

Wood %f 

Plastics 851 

Compositions from Pro- 

teins .■ 851 

From Inorganic Materi- 
als 853 

Masses from Bitumens, 

Oils and Resins ....■■ S5jS 
Masses from Synthetic 

Resins |53 

Plating, Chromium ™? 

Polishes 853-854 




Floor • ■ 853 

Furniture , 8 5l 

Leather ; 853 

Metal 854 

ing 

ishes • • * *: Trnn . . . .855 
Rustprooflnff of Iron . 



INDEX 



s 

Shot Gun Cleaner 855 

Shoe Dressing, Neutral . . .855 
Stains, Removal of, from 

Marble 850 

Fire Stains 850 

Iodine 850 

Perspiration 850 

Tobacco 850 

Wine 856 



Tung, or Chinawood Oil, 
Cooking ..856 



883 



Varnish Formulas Involv- 
ing Use of Synthetic 

Resins 855 

Four-hour 856 

Linoleum 857 

Spar .....857 

Vehicle for Aluminum 
Bronzing 857 

w 

Waterproofing, "Wall (Ex- 
terior) 8 

Wood preservation 85 




10,000 



10,000 FORMULAS 

FOR HOME, FARM, AND WORKSHOP 



Acid-Proofing 

An Acid-Pro of Table Top.— 
t 

Copper sulphate 1 part 

Potassium chlorate. ... 1 part 
Water 8 parts 

Boil until salts arc dissolved. 
2. 

Aniline hydroehlorate. 3 parts 

Water. 20 parts 

Or, if more readily procurable: 

Aniline 6 parts 

Hydrochloric acid 9 parts 

WWr 50 parts 

By the use of a brush two coats of so- 
lution No. 1 are applied while hot; the sec- 
ond coat as soon as the first is dry. Then 
two coats of solution No. 2, and the wood 
allowed to dry thoroughly. Later, a 
coat of raw linseed oil is to be applied, 
using a cloth instead of a brush, in order 
to get a thinner coat of the oil. 

A writer in the Journal of Applied 
Microscopy states that he has used this 
me pod upon some old laboratory tables 
which had been finished in the usual way, 
tae wood having been filled, oiled, and 
varnished. After scraping off the varnish 
down to the wood, the solutions were ap- 
plied, and the result was very satisfac- 
tory. 

After some experimentations the for- 
mula was modified without materially 
attecting the cost, and apparently in- 
creasing the resistance of the wood to the 
action of strong acids and alkalies. The 
modified formula follows: 

Iron sulphate 4 parts 

popper sulphate 4 parts 

rotassium pernaanga- 

^ate 8 parts 

Water, q. s .100 parts 



Aniline |g parts 

Hydrochloric acid."'.".' 18 parts 

Water, q- s .. ..100 parts 

Or: 

Aniline hydroehlorate 15 parts 
Water, q. s 100 parts 

Solution No. 2 has not been change 
except to arrange the parts per hundre 

The method of application is the sam 
except that after solution No. 1 has drie 
the excess of the solution which has dri 
upon the surface of the wood is tbo 
oughly rubbed off before the applicatio 
of solution No. 2. The black color do 
not appear at once, but usually requir 
a few hours before becoming ebo 
black. The linseed oil may be dilute 
with turpentine without disadvantag 
and after a few applications the surfa 
will take on a dull and not displea 
ing polish. The table tops are eas' 
cleaned by washing with water or su 
after a course of work is completed, a~ 
the application of another coat of o 
puts them in excellent order for anoth 
course of work. Strong acids or alkalie 
when spilled, if soon wiped off, hav 
scarcely a perceptible effect. 

A slate or tile top is expensive not onl 
in its original cost, but also as a destroy 
of glassware. Wood tops when pafnte 
oiled, or paraffined have objectionabl 
features, the latter especially in war- 
weather. Old tabic tops, after the pain 
or oil is scraped off down to the wood, 
take the above finish nearly as well as 
the new wood. 

To Make Wood Acid- and Chlorine- 
proof. — Take 6 pounds of wood tar and 
12 pounds rosin, and melt them together 
in an iron kettle, after which stir m 8 
pounds finely powdered brick dust. 
The damaged parts must be cleaned 
perfectly and dried, whereupon tney 
may be painted over with the warm 
preparation or filled up and drawn off, 
leaving the film on the inside. 

Protecting Cement Against Acid. —A 
paint to protect cement against acid is 
obtained by mixing pure asbestos, very 
finely powdered, with a thick solution or 



0 

«. m .jiTeate. The sodium silicate 
sodium silicate. poss ible. Hie 



ADHESIVES 



e 

small 




reservoirs, 
or liquid- 

ployed for making 



etc., against any 



stone 



JUL.' ^ 

To Make Corks Impermeab e and 
AcidVoof.-Choose .your corks^care^ 



ffl ™ ^ th T int roa° in 
of gelatin or common glue 15 parts m 

water, heated to 44° or 48 C. (112 iw 
F), and keep them there for several 
hours. On removing the corks. which 
should be weighted down m the solution 
dry them in the shade until they are free 
from all surplus moisture. They are now 
perfectly tight, retaining at the same 
time the greater portion of their elasticity 
and suppleness. To render them acid- 
proof, they should be treated with a 
mixture of vaseline, % parts, and para time 
7 parts, heated to about 105° P. This 
second operation may be avoided by 
adding to the gelatin solution a little 
ammonium dichromate and afterwards 
exposing the corks to the light. 

Lining for Acid Receptacles. — Plates 
are formed of 1 part of brown slate, £ 
of powdered glass, and 1 of Portland 
cement, the whole worked up with sili- 
cate of soda, molded and dried. Make 
a cement composed of ground slate and 
sflicate of soda and smear the surface 
for the lining; then, while it is still plastic, 
apply the plates prepared as above de- 
scribed. Instead of these plates, slabs 
of glass or porcelain or similar substances 
may be employed with the same cement. 

ACACIA, MUCILAGE OF : 

See Adhesives under Mucilages. 

ACID-PROOF GLASS: 
See Glass. 

ACID-RESISTIHG PAINT: 

See Paint. 
ADHESIVE PLASTER, TO RE- 
MOVE WITHOUT PAIN: 

OU of wintergreen applied to adhes 



Adhesives 

GLUES : 

Manufacture of Glue. — I.— The i lsilfl i 
process of removing the phosphate of 
lime from bones for glue-making ^ 
poses by means of dilute hydrochloric 
acid has the disadvantage that the acid 
cannot be regenerated. Attempts to u Se 
sulphurous acid instead have so fa r 
proved unsuccessful, as, even with the 
large quantities used, the process is very 
slow. According to a German invention 
this difficulty with sulphurous acid can 
be avoided by using it in aqueous solu- 
tion under pressure. The solution of 
the Hme goes on very rapidly, it is 
claimed, and no troublesome precipi- 
tation of calcium sulphite takes place. 
Both phosphate of lime and sulphurous 
acid are regenerated from the lyes by 
simple distillation. 

II, — Bones may be treated with suc- 
cessive quantities of combined sulphur- 
ous acid and water, from which the heat 
of combination has been previously dis- 
sipated, the solution being removed after 
each treatment, before the bone salts 
dissolved therein precipitate, and before 
the temperature rises above 74° 1)\— 
U. S. Pat. 783,784. » 

III. — A patent relating to the process 
for treating animal sinews, preparatory 
for the glue factory, has been granted to 
Florsheim, Chicago, and consists m im- 

mal sinews successively a 
e the outer 



hesiv?-^ ? om P! etri y. destroy its ad- 
Sary 

oil, which is applied directly to the pl aB - 

IZ " aSUy Spreads itself throughout 
the adhesive material. "fenout 



re ; power in a short time. It is neces- 
S ,7 J5^f. onl y. a . SI ? ia11 am °unt of the 



mersing ami 



petroleum or benzine toreinov 
fleshy animal skin; in a hardening or 
preserving bath, as boric acid, or a » 
or copper sulphate; and in an , alKa " h 
bath to remove fatty matte ' / r0 ? L s 
fibrous part of the si news. 1 te d. 
are afterwards tanned and disintegr 

Test for Glue.— The more wjtgjfj 
glue takes up, swelling it, the d 
is. Pour ounces of the glue to De c & 
ined are soaked for about 12 hour jf 
cool place in 4 pounds of coW ^ Lj. it 
the glue has dissolved after tins tf 
T« of U*A „„„Ut w little value '^j 1 j n g 



is of bad quality and of little ; 
it is coherent, gelatinous, ana ^ * l6 
double, it is good; if it weighs uj^ ftS 
ounces, it is very good > it tl ]le0 t. 
20 ounces, it may be called ex«- • fl 

To Prevent Glue from . CraC ^| fTf re- 
prevent glue from cracking. ,| c j eS atf 
quently occurs when glued » rw 



ADHESIVES 



1" 



exposed to the heat of a stove, a little 
chloride of potassium is added. This 
prevents the glue from becoming dry 
enough to crack:. Glue thus treated will 
adhere to glass, mefaTs, etc., and may 
also be used for pasting on labels. 

Preventing the Putrefaction of Strong 
Qi ues . — The fatty matter always existing 
in small quantity in sheets of ordinary 
glue affects the adhesive properties and 
facilitates the development of bacteria, 
and consequently putrefaction and de- 
composition. These inconveniences are 
remedied by adding a small quantity of 
caustic soda to the dissolved glue. The 
soda prevents decomposition absolutely; 
with the fatty matter it forms a hard soap 
which renders it harmless. 

Liquid Glues. — 

I. — Glue 3 ounces 

Gelatin 3 ounces 

Acetic acid 4 ounces 

Water 2 ounces 

Alum 30 grains 

Heat together for 6 hours, skim, and 
add: 

II. — Alcohol 1 fluidounce 

Brown glue, No. 2. . 2 pounds 
Sodium carbonate . . 11 ounces 

Water '6\ pints 

Oil of clove 160 minims 

Dissolve the soda in the water, pour 
the solution over the dry glue, let stand 
over night or till thoroughly soaked and 
swelled, then heat carefully on a water 
bath until dissolved. When nearly cold 
stir in the oil of cloves. 

By using white glue, a finer article, fit 
for fancy work, may be made. 

III. — Dissolve by heating 00 parts of 
borax in 4Q0 parts of water, add 480 
parts dextrin (pale yellow) and 50 parts 
of glucose and heat carefully with con- 
tinued stirring, to complete solution; 
replace the evaporated water and pour 
through flannel. 

The glue made in this way remains 
clear quite a long time, and possesses 
great adhesive power; it also dries very 
quickly, but upon careless and extended 
heating above 90° C. (194° it is apt 
to turn brown and brittle. 

IV. — Pour .50 parts of warm (not hot) 
water over 50 parts of Cologne glue and 
allow to soak over night. Next day the 
swelled glue is dissolved with moderate 
heat, and if still too thick, a little more 
water is added. When this is done, add 
from 2£ to 3 parts of crude nitric acid, 
stir well, and fill the liquid glue in well- 
corked bottles. This is a good liquid 
st-eam glue. 



V —Soak 1 pound of good glue in 
quart of water lor a few hours, then mel 
the glue by heatmg it, together with th 
ymabsorbed water, then stir in \ poun 
dry white lead, and when that is wel 
mixed pour in 4 fluidounces of alcoho 
and continue the boiling 5 minutes longe 

VI. — boak 1 pound of good glue in 1 
pints of cold water for 5 hours, then a 1 
3 ounces of zinc sulphate and 2 fiui 
ounces of hydrochloric acid, and ke 
the mixture heated for 10 or IS hours 
175° to 190 Q F. The glue remains liq 
and may be used for sticking a variety 
materials. 

VII. — A very inexpensive liquid gl 
may be prepared by first soaking a 
then dissolving gelatin in twice its o 
weight of water at a very gentle he 
then add glacial acetic acid in weig 
equal to the weight of the dry gelati 
It should be remembered, however, th 
all acid glues are not generally appli- 
ble. 

VIII.— Glue ... 200 parts 

Dilute acetic acid. . 400 parts 
Dissolve by the aid of heat and add 

Alcohol 25 parts 

Alum 5 parts 

IX. — Glue . . . . 5 parts 

Calcium chloride.. 1 part 

Water 1 part 

X. — Sugar of lead H drach 

Alum 1 1 drach 

Gum arabic 2$ drach 

W T heat flour 1 av. Ill 

Water, q. s. 

Dissolve the gum in 2 quarts of war: 
water; when cold mix in the flour, a 
add the sugar of lead and alum dissolv 
in water; heat the whole over a slow fi 
until it shows signs of ebullition, .Let 
cool, and add enough gum water to bn 
it to the proper consistence. 

XI. — Dilute 1 part of official pn 
phoric acid with 2 parts of water and I ne 
tralize the solution with carbonate 
ammonium. Add to the liquid an equ 
quantity of water, warm rt on a wat 
bath, and dissolve in it sufficient glue 
form a thick syrupy liquid. Keep 
well-stoppered bottles. 

XII. -- Dissolve 3 parts of glue m ,m 
pieces in 12 to 15 of saccharate of hm 
fiy heating, the glue d.ssolyes rap d 
and remains liquid, when cold, witho 
loss of adhesive power. Any desirab' 
consistence can be secured by vary n 
the amount of saccharate of lime 1 J? 
glue retains its muddy color, while a t 
solution becomes clear on standing. 

The saccharate of lime is prepared 



ADHESIVES 



AW vine 1 part of sugar in 3 P ar *s of 
water a» d after adding } part of the 
;*h\ of the sncar of slaked lime, heat- 
5 whole f35 149° to 185° P., allow- 
ing it to macerate for several days s haking 
t frequently. The solution, which has 
the properties of mucilage, is then de- 
canted from the sediment. 

XIIL— In a solution of borax in water 
soak a pood quantity of glue until it has 
thoroughly imbibed the liquid. Pour oft 
the surplus solution and then put on 
the water bath and melt the glue. Cool 
down until the glue begins to set, then 
add, drop by drop, with agitation, 
enough acetic acid to check the tendency 
to solidification. If, after becoming 
quite cold, there is still a tendency to 
solidification, add a few drops more of 
the acid. The liquid should be of the 
consistence of ordinary mucilage at all 
times. 

XIV.— Gelatin... , 100 parts 

Cabinetmakers' glue. 100 parts 

Alcohol 25 parts 

Alum..... 2 parts 

Acetic acid, 20 per 

cent 800 parts 

Soak the gelatin and glue with the 
acetic acid and heat on a water bath until 
fluid; then add the alum and alcohol. 

XV.— Glue 10 parts 

Water IS parts 

Sodium salicylate. ... 1 part 

XVI. Soak 5 parts of Cologne glue 
in an aqueous calcium chloride solution 
(1 : 4) and heat on the water bath until 
dissolved, replacing the evaporating 
water; or slack 100 parts of lime with 150 
parts of hot water, dissolve 60 parts of 
sugar in 180 parts of water, and add 15 
parts of the slacked lime to the solution, 
heating the whole to 75° C. (107° F.). 
Place aside for a few days, shaking from 
time to time. In the clear sugar-lime 
solution collected by decanting soak 60 
parts of glue and assist the solution by 
moderate heating. 

XVII. — Molasses, 100 parts, dissolved 
in 300 parts of water, 25 parts of quick- 
lime (slaked to powder), being then 
stirred in and the mixture heated to 167° 
F. on a water bath, with frequent stir- 
rings. After settling for a few days a 
large portion of the lime will have dis- 
solved, and the clear, white, thick solu- 
tion, when decanted, behaves like rubber 
solution and makes a highly adherent 
coating. 

XVIII. — Dissolve bone glue, 250 
parts, by heating in 1,000 parts of water, 
and add to the solution barium perox- 

de 10 parts, sulphuric acid (66° B.) 5 



Earts, and water 15 parts. Heat for 48 
ours on the water bath to 80° C. (176° 
P.). Thus a syrupy liquid is obtained, 
which is allowed to settle and is then 
decanted. This glue has no unpleasant 
odor, and does not mold. 

XIX. — A glue possessing the adhesive 
qualities of ordinary joiners^ glue, but 
constituting a pale yellow liquid which ia 
ready for use without requiring heating 
and possesses great resistance to damp- 
ness, is produced by treating dry casein 
with a diluted borax solution or with 
enough ammonia solution to cause a 
faintly alkaline reaction. The prepara- 
tion may be employed alone or mixed 
with liquid starch in any proportion. 

Glue for Celluloid. — I. — Two parts 
shellac, 3 parts spirits of camphor, and 4 
parts strong alcohol dissolved in a warm 
place, give an excellent gluing agent to fix 
wood, tin, and other bodies to celluloid. 
The glue must be kept well corked up. 

II. — A collodion solution may be used, 
or an alcoholic solution of fine celluloid 
shavings. 

Glue to Form Paper Pads.— 

I. — Glue 3£ ounces 

Glycerine 8 ounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Pour upon the glue more than enough 
water to cover it and let stand for several 
hours, then decant the greater portion of 
the water; apply heat until the glue is 
dissolved, and add the glycerin. If the 
mixture is too thick, add more water. 

II. — Glue 6 ounces 

Alum 30 grains 

Acetic acid h ounce 

Alcohol 1 i ounces 

Water 6 1 ounces 

Mix all but the alcohol, digest on a 
water bath till the glue is dissolved, allow 
to cool and add the alcohol. 

Ill— Glue 5 ounces 

Water - . 1 ounce 

Calcium chloride. . 1 ounce 
Dissolve the calcium chloride in the 
water, add the glue, macerate until it is 
thoroughly softened, and then heat unW 
completely dissolved. 

IV.— Glue 20 ounces 

Glycerine 5 ounces 

Syrupy glucose. . . 1 ounce 

Tannin 50 grains 

Cover the glue with cold water, and let 
stand over night. In the morning pour 
off superfluous water, throw the glue or* 
muslin, and manipulate so as to get rnJ 
of as much moisture as possible, then pu* 
in a water bath and melt. Add the give 



ADHESIVES 



erine and syrup, and stir well in. Fi- 
nally, dissolve the tannin in the smallest 
quantity of water possible and add. 
This mixture must be used hot. 

V, — Glue 15 ounces 

Glycerine 5 ounces 

Linseed oil 2 ounces 

Sugar 1 ounce 

Soak the glue as before, melt, add the 
sugar and glycerine, continuing the heat, 
and finally add the oil gradually under 
constant stirring. 

This must be used hot. 

Glue for Tablets.— 

L — Glue 3i ounces 

Glycerine 8 ounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Pour upon the glue more than enough 
water to cover it and let stand for several 
hours, then decant the greater portion of 
the water; apply heat until the glue is 
dissolved, and add the glycerine. If the 
mixture is too thick, add more water. 

H. — Glue 6 ounces 

Alum. 30 grains 

Acetic acid $ ounce 

Alcohol l| ounces 

Water 6| ounces 

Mix all but the alcohol, digest on a 
water bath till the glue is dissolved, allow 
to cool and add the alcohol. 

IH.-Gl ue 5 ounces 

Water 1 ounce 

Calcium chloride. , . 1 ounce 

Dissolve the calcium chloride in the 
water, add the glue, macerate until it is 
thoroughly softened, and then apply heat 
until completely dissolved. 

IV. — Glue, 1 pound; glycerine, 4 ounces; 
glucose syrup, 2 tablespoonfuls; tannin, 
rV ounce. Use warm, and give an hour 
to dry and set on the pads. This can be 
colored with any aniline dye. 

Marine Glue. — Marine glue is a prod- 
uct consisting of shellac and caoutchouc, 
which is mixed differently according to 
the use for which it is required. The 
quantity of benzol used as solvent gov- 
erns the hardness or softness of the glue. 

I- —One part Para caoutchouc is dis- 
solved in 12 parts benzol; 20 parts pow- 
dered shellac are added to the solution, 
and the mixture is carefully heated. 

II. — Stronger glue is obtained by dis- 
solving 10 parts good crude caoutchouc 
m 120 parts benzine or naphtha which 
solution is poured slowly and in a fine 
stream into 20 parts asphaltum melted 
in a kettle, stirring constantly and heat- 
mg. Pour the finished glue, after the 
solvent has almost evaporated and the 



mass has become quite uniform, into 

Ehfe ^A 1Ch i ^^fies into very] Lar" 
tablets of dark brown or black colo 
For use, these glue tablets are fim soak 
in boiling water and then heated over 
free flame until the marine glue has b 
come thinly l iqu id. The pieces to b 
glued are also warmed and a verv durab 
union is obtained. 

9 ut cacm tchouc into small pie 
and dissolve m coal naphtha by heat 
agitation. Add to this solution po 
dered shellac, and heat the whole, co 
stantly stirring until combination tak 
place, then pour it on metai plates to for 
sheets. When used it must be heated 
24-8° F., and applied with a brush. 

Water-Proof Glues. — I. — The glue 
put in water till it is soft, and sub 
quently melted in linseed oil at modcr" 
heat. This glue is affected neither 
water nor by vapors. 

II. — Dissolve a small quantity of si 
darac and mastic in a little alcohol, a 
add a little turpentine. The solution 
boiled in a kettle over the fire, and 
equal quantity of a strong hot solution 
glue and isinglass is added. Then fil 
through a cloth while hot, 

III. — Water- pro of glue may also 
produced by the simple addition 
bichromate of potassium to the liquid g 
solution, and subsequent exposure to 
air. 

IV. — Mix glue as usual, and then a 
linseed oil in the proportion of 1 part 
to 8 parts glue. If it is desired that t 
mixture remain liquid, i ounce of ni 
acid should be added to every pound 
glue. This will also prevent the 
from souring. 

V. — In 1,000 parts of rectified alco 
dissolve 60 parts of sandarac and 
much mastic whereupon add 60 parts 
white oil of turpentine. Next, prepare 
rather strong glue solution and add abo 
the like quantity of isinglass, heating t 
solution until it commences to boil; th 
slowly add the hot glue solution til la thi 
paste forms, which can still be nJtere 
through a cloth. Heat the solution b 
fore use and employ like ordinary glu 
A connection effected with this glue i 
not dissolved by cold water and eve 
resists hot water for a long time. 

VI. —Soak 1,000 parts of Cologne gt 
in cold water for 12 hours and >n anoth 
vessel for the same length of time 15 
narts of isinglass in a mixture of lam 
s P pTrit and wlter. Then dissolve : b o 
masses together on the water ball in 
suitable vessel, tb.nnmg if necessary 
with some hot water. Next add 



14 



ADHESIVES 



parts of Unseed oil varnish and filter hot 

^fJSrdinary glue is kept in water 
Until it swells up without losing its shape. 
Thus softened *it is. placed ib an iron 
crucible without adding water; then add 
finseed oil according to the quantity ^ of 
the clue and leave tins mixture to boil 
over a slow fire until a gelatinous mass 
results. Such glue unites materials in a 
very durable manner. It adheres firmly 
and hardens quickly. . Its chief ad van- 
tage, however, consists in that it neither 
absorbs water nor allows it to pass 
through, whereby the connecting places 
are often destroyed. A little borax will 
prevent putrefaction. . 
r YUl —Bichromate of potassium 40 
parte (by weight); gelatin glue, 65 parts; 
alum, 5 parts. Dissolve the glue m a 
little water and add the bichromate of 
potassium and the alum. _ 

IX. — This preparation permits an ab- 
solutely permanent gluing of pieces of 
cardboard, even when they are moist- 
ened by water. Melt together equal 
parts of good pitch and gutta-percha; of 
this take 9 parts, and add to it 3 parts of 
boiled linseed oil and parts of litharge. 
Place this over the fire and stir it till all 
the ingredients are intimately mixed. 
The mixture may be diluted with a little 
benzine or oil of turpentine, and must be 
warm when used. 

Glue to Fasten Linoleum on. Iron 
Stairs. — I. — Use a mixture of glue, isin- 
glass, and dextrin which, dissolved in 
water and heated, is given an admixture- 
of turpentine. The strips pasted down 
must be weighted with boards and brick 
on top until the adhesive agent has hard- 
ened. 

II. — Soak 3 parts of glue in 8 parts 
water, add £ part hydrochloric acid and 
f part zinc vitriol and let this mixture 
boil several hours. Coat the floor and 
the back of the linoleum with this. 
Pr^ss the linoleum down uniformly and 
firmly and weight it for some time. 

Glue for Attaching Gloss to Precious 
Metals. — Sandarac varnish, 15 parts; 
marine glue, 5 parts; drying oil, 5 parts; 
white lead, 5_ parts; Spanish white, 5 
parts; turpentine, 5 parts. Triturate all to 
form a rather homogeneous paste. This 
glue becomes very hard and resisting. 

Elastic Glue. — Although elastic glue is 
less durable than rubber, and will not 
stand much heat, yet it is cheaper than 
rubber, and is not, like rubber affected 
by oil colors. Hence it is largely used 
for printing rollers and stamps. For 



stamps, good glue is soaked for 94 hours 
in soft water. The water is poured off, 
and the swollen glue is melted and mixed 
with glycerine and a little salicylic acid 
and cast into molds. The durability is in- 
creased by painting the mass with a solu- 
tion of tannin, or, better, of bichromate 
of potassium. Printing rollers require 
greater firmness and elasticity. The 
mass for them once consisted solely of 
glue and vinegar, and their manufacture 
was very difficult. The use of glycerine 
has remedied this, and gives great elas- 
ticity without adhesiveness, and has re- 
moved the liability of moldiness. Swol- 
len glue, which has been superficially 
dried, is fused with glycerine and cast 
into oil molds. Similar mixtures are 
used for casting plaster ornaments, etc., 
and give very snarp casts. A mass con- 
sisting of glue and glycerine is poured 
over the model in a box. When the mold 
is removed, it is painted with plaster out- 
side and with boiled oil inside, and can 
then be used many times for making re- 
productions of the model. 

Glue for Paper and Metal. — A glue 
which will keep well and adhere tightly 
is obtained by diluting 1,000 parts by 
weight of potato starch in 1,200 parts by 
weight of water and adding 50 parts by 
weight of pure nitric acid. The mixture 
is kept in a hot place for 48 hours, taking 
care to stir frequently. It is afterwards 
boiled to a thick and transparent consist- 
ency, diluted with water if there is occa- 
sion, and then there are added in the 
form of a screened powder, % parts of sal 
ammoniac and 1 part of sulphur flowers. 

Glue for Attaching Cloth Strips to Iron. 
—Soak 500 parts of Cologne glue in the 
evening with clean cold water in a clean 
vessel; in the morning pour off the water, 
place the softened glue without admix- 
ture of water into a clean copper ot 
enamel receptacle, which is put on a mod- 
erate low fire (charcoal or stcarn appa- 
ratus). During the dissolution the mass 
must be continually stirred with a wood- 
en trowel or spatula. If the glue is too 
thick, it is thinned with diluted spirit, 
but not with water. As soon as the glue 
has reached the boiling point,_ about 50 
parts of linseed oil varnish (boiled oil) is 
added to the mass with constant stirring. 
When the latter has been stirred up well, 
add 50 parts of powdered colophony and 
shake it into the mass with stirring, 
subsequentlv removing the glue from fne 
fire. In order to increase the binding 
qualities and to guard against moisture, 
it is well still to add about 50 parts ot 
isinglass, which has been previously cur 



ADHESIVES 



into narrow strips and placed, well 
beaten, m a vessel, into which enough 
spirit of wine has been poured to cover 
all. When dissolved, the last - named 
njass is added to the boiling glue with 
constant stirring. The adhesive agent 
is now ready for use and is employed hot, 
it being advisable to warm the iron also. 
Apply glu e on Iy to a surface equivalent 
to a single strip at a time. The strips are 
pressed down with a stiff brush or a wad 
of cloth. 

Glue for Leather or Cardboard. — To 

attach leather to cardboard dissolve 
good glue (softened by swelling in water) 
with a little turpentine and enough water 
in an ordinary glue pot, and then having 
■nade a thick paste with starch in the 
proportion of 2 parts by weight, of starch 
powder for every 1 part, by weight, of 
drv gine, mix the compounds and allow 
the mixture to become cold before appli- 
cation to the cardboard. 

For Wood, Glass, Cardboard, and all 
Articles of a Metallic or Mineral Char- 
acter, — Take boiled linseed oil SO parts, 
Flemish glue 20 parts, hydrated lime 15 
parts, powdered turpentine 5 parts, alum 
5 parts acetic acid 5 parts. Dissolve the 
glue with the acetic acid, add the alum, 
then the hydrated lime, and finally the 
turpentine " and the boiled linseed oil. 
Triturate all well until it forms a homo- 
geneous paste and keep in well-closed 
flasks. Use like any other glue. 

Glue for Uniting Metals with Fabrics. 

— Cologne glue of good quality is soaked 
and boiled down to the consistency of 
that used by cabinetmakers. Then add, 
with constant stirring, sifted wood ashes 
until a moderately thick, homogeneous 
mass results. Use hot and press the 
pieces well together during the drying. 
For tinfoil about 2 per cent of boracic 
acid should be added instead of the wood 
ashes. 

Glue or Paste for Making Paper 
Boxes. — 

Chloral hydrate 5 parts 

Gelatin, white 8 parts 

Gum arable 2 parts 

Boiling water 30 parts 

Mix ^ the chloral, gelatin, and gum 
arabic in a porcelain container, pour the 
boiling water over the mixture and let 
stand for 1 day, giving it a vigorous stir- 
ring several times during the day. In 
cold weather this is apt to get hard and 
stiff, but this may be obviated by stand- 
ing the container in warm water for a 
few minutes. This paste adheres to any 
surface whatever. 



Natural Glue for Cementing Porcel 1 
Crystal Glass, etc.- The large s h t 
snails winch are found in vineyards hav 

whitish bladder filled with a substan 
of greasy and gelatinous aspect. If t 
substance extracted from the bladder 
applied on the fragments of porcelain 
any body whatever, which are juxtapos 
by being made to touch at all parts, th 
acquire such adhesion that if one striv 
to separate them by a blow, they a 
more liable to break at another pla 
than the cemented seam. It is necessa 
to give this glue sufficient time to dry p 
fectly, so as to permit it to acquire t 
highest degree of strength and tenacity 

Belt Glue. — A glue for belts can 
prepared as follows; Soak 50 parts 
gelatin in water, pour off the excess 
water, and heat on the water bath. W 
good stirring add, first, 5 parts, 
weight, of glycerine, then 10 parts, 
weight, of turpentine, and 5 parts, by 
weight, of linseed oil varnish and thin 
with water as required. The ends of the 
belts to be glued are cut off obliquely and 
warmed; then the hot glue is applied, and 
the united parts are subjected to strong 
pressure, allowing them to dry thus for 
24 hours before the belts are used. 

Chromium Glue for Wood, Paper, and 
Cloth. — I. — (a) One-half pound strong 
glue (any glue if color is immaterial, 
white fish glue otherwise); soak 12 hours 
in 12 fluidounces of cold water, (4) One- 
quarter pound gelatin; soak 2 hours in 
12 fluidounce? cold water, (c) Two 
ounces bichromate of potassium dis- 
solved in 8 fluidounces boiling water. 
Dissolve (a) after soaking, in a glue pot, 
and add (6) . After (a) and (b) are mixed 
and dissolved, stir in (e). This glue is 
exceedingly strong, and if the article 
cemented be exposed to strong sunlight 
for 1 hour, the glue becomes perfectly 
waterproof. Of course, it is understood 
that the exposure to sunlight is to »e 
made after the glue is thoroughly dry- 
The one objectionable # feature of this 
cement is its color, which is a yeUow- 
brown. By substituting chrome alum 
in place of the bichromate, an olive color 

" Il^Use a moderately strong gelatin 
solution (containing 5 to 10 per cent of 
dry gelatin), to which about 1 part ot 
acfd chromate of potassium in solution* 
added to every 5 parts of g Jatm. 
mixture has the property of b econung in 
soluble by water through the action or 
sunlight under partial reduction of the 
chromic acid. 



16 



ADHESIVES 



Fireproof Gltie.- 

Raw linseed ml 8 parts 

Glue or gelatin g 

Quicklime 3 parts 

Soak the glue or gelatin m the oil for 

lavers to dry gradually, out ot tne suns 
rays For use, reheat the glue in a glue 
pot in the ordinary way of melting glue. 

CEMENTS. 

Under this heading will be found only 
cements for causing one substance to ad- 
here to another. Cements used prima- 
rily as fillers, such as dental cements, 
will be found under Cements, Putties, 
etc. 

Cutlers' Cements for Fixing Knife 
Blades into Handles.— 

I,— Rosin 4 pounds 

Beeswax 1 pound 

Plaster of Paris or 

brickdust 1 pound 

II.— Pitch 5 pounds 

Wood ashes 1 pound 

Tallow 1 pound 

III. — Rosin, 12; sulphur flowers, 3; 
iron filings, 5. Melt together, fill the 
handle while hot, and insert the instru- 
ment. 

IV. — Plaster of Paris is ordinarily 
used for fastening loose handles. It is 
made into a moderately thick paste with 
water run into the hole in the head of the 
pestle, the handle inserted and held in 
place till the cement hardens. Some add 
sand to the paste, and claim to get better 
results. 

V— Boil together 1 part of caustic soda, 
8 parts of rosin, and 5 parts of water till 
homogeneous and add 4 parts of plaster 
of Paris. The paste sets m half an hour 
and is but little affected by water. 

Y I *r~,? qijal quantities of gutta percha 
and shellac are melted together and well 
stirred. This is best done in an iron cap- 
sule placed on a sandbath and heated 
over a gas furnace or on the top of a 
sto\e. i ne combination possesses both 
hardness and toughness, qualities that 
jnake it particularly desirable in mend- 

the £S T a ? d Pestles - Iti usi *g> 
™ i C i 6S i t0 be cemented should be 

S™« Infc 1 ^ Point of the 
until ™Jf stained in proper position 
unth cool, wheil tkey are ready f £ r use> 

VII..— Kosin Ron \ 

suipbur Sol P £f 

iron filings S50 J weight. 



Pour the mixture, hot, into the openin 
of the heated handle and shove in tlr 
knife likewise heated. " ie 

VIII. — Melt sufficient black rosin anil 
incorporate thoroughly with it one-fifth rk 
weight of very fine silver sand. M a k» 
the pestle hot, pour in a little of the nux. 
ture, then force the handle well home" 
and set aside for a day before usim*. ' 

IX. — Make a smooth, moderately soft 
paste with litharge and glycerine; fill the 
hole in the pestle with the cement, and 
firmly press the handle in place, keeping 
it uuder pressure for three or four days. 

Cements for Stone. — I. — An excellent 
cement for broken marble consists of 4 
parts of gypsum and 1 part of finely 
powdered gum arabic. Mix intimately. 
Then with a cold solution of borax make 
into a mortarlike mass. Smear on each 
face of the parts to be joined, and fasten 
the' bits of marble together. In the 
course of a few days the cement becomes 
very hard and holds very tenaciously. 
The object mended should not be touched 
for several days. In mending colored 
marbles the cement may be given the hue 
of the marble by adding the color to tne 
borax solution. 

II. — A cement which dries instanta- 
neously, qualifying it for all sorts of re- 
pairing and only presenting the disad- 
vantage of having to be freshly prepared 
each time, notwithstanding any subse- 
quent heating, may be made as follows: 
In a metal vessel or iron spoon melt 4 to 
5 parts of rosin (or preferably mastic) 
and 1 part of beeswax. This mixture 
must be applied rapidly it being of ad- 
vantage slightly to heat the surfaces to be 
united, which naturally must have been 
previously well cleaned. 

III. — Slaked lime, 10 parts; chalk, 15 
parts; kaolin, 5 parts; mix, and imme- 
diately before use stir with a correspond- 
ing amount of potash water glass. 

IV. — Cement on Marble Slabs.— The 
whole marble slab is thoroughly warmed 
and laid face down upon a neatly cieanea 

5 lencloth 

poli: 

the" slab. Next apply to the slab very 
hot, weak glue and quickly sift hot plaster 
of Paris on the glue in a thin even layer, 
stirring the plaster rapidly into tbe : ap 
plied glue by means of a strong spat" 1*. 
so that a uniform glue-plaster coatu.g 
is formed on the warm slab. ~iece 
has time to harden tip the respective pi 
of furniture on the slab. Th- i^me, l ikp 
wise warmed, will adhere very firmly ■ 
slab after two days. Besides, this proce 
has the advantage of great cleanliness 



»nu lain race uown iipuii a, uwwj , 

planing bench upon which a woolen clot 
is spread so as not to injure the polist 1 ° 



ADHESIVES 



V. — The f ollowing is a recipe used by 
marble worKers, and which probably 
can be used to advantage: Flour of sul- 
phur, 1 part; hydroclilorate of am- 
monia, 2 parts; iron filinga, 1G parts. 
The above substances must be reduced 
to a powder, and securely preserved 
in closely stoppered vessels. When the 
cement IS to be employed, take 20 parts 
very fine iron filings and X part of the 
above powder; mix them together with 
enough water to form a manageable 
paste. Tins paste solidifies in 20 days 
and becomes as hard as iron. A recipe 
for anothf cement useful for joining 
small pieces of marble or alabaster is as 
follows: Add 1 pint of vinegar to * pint 
skimmed milk; mix the curd with the 
whites of 5 eggs, well beaten, and suffi- 
cient powdered quicklime sifted in wilh 
constant stirring so as to form a paste. 
It resists water and a moderate degree of 
heat. 

VI. — Cement for Iron and Marble. — 

For fastening iron to marble or stone a 
good cement is made as follows: Thirty 
parts plaster of Paris, 10 parts iron filings, 
h part sal ammoniac mixed with vinegar 
to a fluid paste fresh for use. 

Cement for Sandstones. — One part 
sulphur and 1 part rosin are melted 
separately; the melted masses are mixed 
and 3 parts litharge and 2 parts ground 
glass stirred in. The latter ingredients 
must be perfectly dry, and have been 
well pulverized and mixed previously. 

Equally good cement is obtained by 
melting together 1 part pitch and tV part 
wax, and mixing with 2 parts brickdust. 

The stones to be cemented, or be- 
tween the joints of which the putty is to 
be poured, must be perfectly dry. If 
practicable, they should be warmed a 
little, and the surfaces to which the putty 
is to adhere painted with oil varnish 
once or twice. The above two formulae 
are of especial value in case the stones 
are very much exposed to the heat of the 
sun in summer, as well as to cold, rain, 
and snow in winter. Experience has 
shown that in these instances the above- 
mentioned cements give better satisfac- 
tion than the other brands of cement. 

Cements for Attaching Objects to 
Glass. — 

Rosin 1 part 

Yellow wax 2 parts 

Melt together. 

To Attach. _ Copper to Glass. — Boil 1 
Part of caustic soda and 3 parts of co- 
lophony in 5 parts of water and mix with 
the like quantity of plaster of Paris. 



This cement is not attacked by wat 
heat, and petroleum. If, in place of f 
plaster of Pans, zinc white, white lea 
or slaked lime is used, the cement har 
ens more slowly. 

To Fasten Brass upon Glass.— Boil t 
gether 1 part of caustic soda, 3 parts » 
rosin, 3 parts of gypsum, and 5 parts o 
water. Ike cement made in this way 
hardens in about half an hour, hence it 
must be applied quickly. During the 
preparation it should be stirred con- 
stantly. All the ingredients used must 
be in a finely powdered state. 

Uniting Glass with Horn. — (1) A solu- 
tion of £ parts of gelatin in 20 parts water 
is evaporated up to one-sixth of its volume 
and ^ mastic dissolved in \ spirit added 
and some zinc white stirred in. The 
putty is applied warm; it dries easily 
and can be kept a long time. (2) Mix 
gold size with the equal volume of water 
glass. 

To Cement Glass to Iron. — 

I. — Rosin 5 ounces 

Yellow wax 1 ounce 

Venetian red 1 ounce 

Melt the wax and rosin on a water 
bath and add, under constant stirring, the 
Venetian red previously well dried. Stir 
until nearly cool, so as to prevent the Ve- 
netian red from settling to the bottom. 

II. — Portland cement 2 ounces 

Prepared chalk 1 ounce 

Fine sand 1 ounce 

Solution of sodium silicate 
enough to form a semi- 
liquid paste. 

HI.— Litharge 2 parts 

White lead . - - 1 part 

Work into a pasty condition by using 
3 parts boiled linseed oil, 1 part copal 
varnish. 

Celluloid Cements.— I.— To mend brok- 
en draughting triangles and other cellu- 
loid articles, use 3 parts alcohol and 4 
parts ether mixed together and *VP\f *° 
the fracture with a brush until the edges 
become warm. The edges are then 
sS together, and left to Sry for at least 

^L-Camphor, 1 part; alcohol 4 parts. 
Dissolve ana add equal quantity (by 
weight} of shellac to this solution. 
We ifrilf firmness is desired m putting 
celluloid on wood, tin, etc the fofiowin| 
gluing agent 's^ reeommended viz A 

compound of » P arrs , ^ 1~ ' fo .from? 
spirit of camphor, and 4 parts strong 

alcohol. 




IV— Shellac •• 9 ounces 

Spirits of camphor.. 2 ounces 
Alcohol, 90 per cent. . 6 to 8 ounces 
V —Make a moderately strong glue or 
Solution of gelatin. In a dark place or 
a dark room mix with the above a small 
amount of concentrated solution of potas- 
sium diohromate. Coat the back of the 
label, which must be clean, with a thin 
layer of the mixture. Strongly press the 
label against the bottle and keep the two 
in close contact by tying with twine or 
otherwise. Expose to sunlight for some 
hours; this causes the cement to be insol- 
uble even in hot water. 

VI.— Lime av. oz. 1 

White of egg av. 02. %\ 

Plaster of Paris av. oz. 5* 

Water fl. oz. 1 

Reduce the lime to a fine powder; mix 
it with the white of egg by trituration, 
forming a uniform paste. Dilute with 
water, rapidly incorporate the plaster of 
Paris, and use the cement immediately. 
The surfaces to be cemented must first 
be moistened with water so that the ce- 
ment will readily adhere. The pieces 
must be firmly pressed together and kept 
in this position for about 12 hours. 

Cementing Celluloid and Hard-Rubber 
Articles. — I. — Celluloid articles ean be 
mended by making a mixture com- 
posed of 3 parts of alcohol and 4 parts of 
ether. This mixture should be kept in 
a well-corked bottle, and when celluloid 
articles are to be mended, the broken 
surfaces are painted over with the alcohol 
and ether mixture until the surfaces 
soften: then press together and bind and 
allow to dry for at least 24 hours. 

II. — Dissolve 1 part of gum camphor 
in 4 parts of alcohol; dissolve an equal 
weight of shellac in such strong camphor 
solution. The cement is applied warm 
and the parts united must not be dis- 
turbed until the cement is hard. Hard- 
rubber articles are never mended to form 
a strong joint. 

HI. — Melt together equal parts of 
gutta percha and real asphaltum. The 
cement is applied hot, and the broken 
surfaces pressed together and held in 
place while cooling. 

Sign-Letter Cements.— 

* — £°P al varnish 15 parts 

Drying oil 5 parts 

turpentine (spirits). 3 parts 

Oil of turpentine. ... 2 parts 

Liquefied glue 5 parts 

Melt all together on a water bath until 

lime tlien add 10 partS Slaked 



II.— Mix 100 parts finely powdered 
white litharge with 50 parts dry white 
lead, knead together 3 parts linseed oil 
varnish and 1 part copal varnish into a 
firm dough. Coat the side to be attached 
with this, removing the superfluous 7 ce- 
ment. It will dry quickly and become 
very hard. 

ITT — Copal varnish ...... 15 parts 

Linseed -oil varnish . 5 parts 
Raw turpentine. .... 3 parts 

Oil of turpentine. ... 2 parts 

Carpenters' glue, dis- 
solved in water ... 5 parts 
Precipitated chalk. . 10 parts 

IV. — Mastic gum 1 part 

Litharge, lead 2 parts 

White lead 1 part 

Linseed oil S parts 

Melt together to a homogeneous mass. 
Apply hot. To make a thorough and 
reliable job, the letters should be heated 
to at least the temperature of the cement. 

To Fix Gold Letters, etc., upon Glass. 
— I. — The glass must be entirely clean and 
polished, and the medium is prepared in 
the following manner: One ounce fish 
glue or isinglass is dissolved in water 
so that the latter covers the glue. When 
this is dissolved a quart of rectified spir- 
it of wine is added, and enough water is 
poured in to make up one-quarter the 
whole. The substance must be kept weE 
corked. 

II. — Take i quart of the best rum 
and \ ounce fish glue, which is dissolved 
in the former at a moderate degree of 
heat. Then add i quart distilled water, 
and filter through a piece of old linen. 
The glass is laid upon a perfectly level 
table and is covered with this substance 
to the thickness of } inch, using a clean 
brush. Seize the gold leaf with a 
pointed object and place it smoothly 
upon the prepared mass, and it will be 
attracted by the glass at once. After 5 
minutes hold the glass slightly slanting 
so that the superfluous mass can run off, 
and leave the plate in this position for 24 
hours, when it will be perfectly dry. Now 
trace the letters or the design on a piece 
of paper, and perforate the lines with a 
thick needle, mak'ng the holes tV i ncn 
apart. Then place the perforated paper 
upon the surface of the glass, and stamp 
the tracery on with powdered chalk. The 
paper pattern is then carefully removed, 
and the accurate design will remain u P° n 
the gold. The outlines are now filled 
out with an oily gold mass, mixed with 
a little chrome orange and diluted with 
boiled oil or turpentine. When all is 
dry the superfluous gold is washed on 



ADHESIVES 



19 



flrith water by means of a common rag. 
The back of the glass is tben painted 
with a suitable color. 

Attaching Enamel Letters to Glass. — 
To affix enamel letters to glass, first 
clean the surface of the glass perfectly, 
leaving no grease or sticky substance 
of any kind adhering to the surface. 
Then with a piece of soap sketch the out- 
lines of the design. Make the proper 
division of the guide lines, and stnkp off 
accurately the position each letter is to 
occupy. Then to the back of the letters 
apply a cement made as follows: White 
lead "ground in oil, 2 parts; dry white 
lead, 3 parts. Mix to a soft putty con- 
sistency with good copal varnish. 

With a small knife or spatula apply 
the cement to the back of the letters, 
observing especial care in getting the 
mixture well and uniformly laid around 
the inside edges of the letter. In at- 
taching the letters to the glass make sure 
to expel the air from beneath the char- 
acters, and to do this, work them up 
and down and sidewise. If the weather 
be at all warm, support the letters 
while drying by pressing tiny beads of 
sealing wax against the glass, close to 
the under side or bottom of the letters. 
With a putty knife, keenly sharpened 
on one edge, next remove all the sur- 

Elus cement. Give the letters a hard, 
rni pressure against the glass around 
all edges to securely guard against the 
disruptive attacks of moisture. 

The seepage of moisture beneath the 
surface of the letters is the main cause 
of their early detachment from the glass. 

The removal of the letters from the 
glass may be effected by applying tur- 
pentine to the top of the characters, 
allowing it to soak down and through 
the cement. Oxalic acid applied in the 
same way will usually slick the letters 
off in a trice. 

Cement for Porcelain Letters. — Slake 
15 parts of fresh quicklime in 20 parts of 
water. Melt 50 parts of caoutchouc and 
50 parts of linseed-oil varnish together, 
and bring the mixture to a boil. While 
boiling, pour the liquid on the slaked 
hme, little by little, under constant stir- 
ring. p asg the mixture, while still hot, 
through muslin, to remove any possible 
lumps, and let cool. It takes the cement 
a days to set completely, but when dry 
it makes a joint that will resist a great 
deal of strain. By thinning the mixture 
down with oil of turpentine, a brilliant, 
j powerfully adhesive varnish is obtained. 

Water - Glass Cements. — I. — Water 
I Bfass (sodium of potassium silicate), which 



is frequent y recommended for cement- 
ing glass does not, as is often asserted 
form a vitreous connection between the 
joined surfaces; and, in fact, some of 
the commercial varieties will not even 
dry, but merely form a thick paste, 
which has a strong affinity for moisture! 
Good 80° B - w ?. ter 8 la ss is, however, 
suitable for mending articles that are ex- 
posed to heat, and is best applied to sur- 
faces that have been gently warmed; 
when the pieces are put together they 
should be pressed warmly, to expel any 
superfluous cement, and then heated 
strongly. 

To repair cracked glasses or bottles 
through which water will leak, water 
glasses may be used, the application 
being effected in the following easy 
manner: The vessel is warmed to induce 
rarefaction of the internal air, after 
which the month is closed, either by a 
cork in the case of bottles, or by a pieco 
of parchment or bladder if a wide- 
mouthed vessel is under treatment. 

While still hot, the outside of the 
crack is covered with a little glass, and 
the vessel set aside to cool, whereupon 
the difference between the pressure of the 
external and internal air will force the 
cement into the fissure and close it 
completely. All that is then necessary 
is to take off the cover and leave the 
vessel to warm, for a few hours. Sub- 
sequently rinse it out with lime water, 
followed by clean water, and it will then 
hold any liquid, acids and alkaline fluids 
alone excepted. 

XI. — When water glass is brought into 
contact with calcium chloride, a cal- 
cium silicate is at once formed which 
is insoluble in water. It seems possible 
that this reaction may be used m bind- 
ing together masses of sand, etc. The 
process indicated has long been used ! m 
the preservation of stone which has be- 
come "weathered." The stone is first 
brushed with the water glass and alter- 
wards with a solution of calcium chlor- 
ide. The conditions here are o± course 

^C e aSum chloride must .not .be con- 
founded with the so-called " chloride of 
lime " which is a mixture of calcium ny- 
pochlorite and other bodies. 

To Fasten Paper Tickets to Glass -To 
attach paper tickets to glass, the : em- 
ployment of water glass is efficacious. 
Care should be taken to ^d thu ; prod- 
uct on the class and not on the papen 
ana then1o g a P p]y the paper dry which 
should be done immediately. When the 
solution is dry the paper cannot be a* 



ADHESIVES 



i A The silicate should be some- 
SfifdfloST It is spread on the glass 
S a rag or a small sponge. 



EWELERS' CEMErfTS. ( 
jewelers and goldsmiths 

however", be colorless. In this resp 
these are distinguished chiefly by tne 
so-called diamond cement and ^Je regu_ 
Jar iewelers cement. Diamond ce 
ment 1 much esteemed by jewelers for 
Srnenting precious stones and corals 
but may also be employed mth ad 
vantage for laying colored fluxes ot 
S on white gfass. The diamond 
cement is of such a nature as to be able 
to remain for some time in contact with 
water without becoming soft. It ad- 
heres best between glass or between pre- 
cious stones. It is composed as follows: 
Isinglass 8 parts, gum ammoniac 1 part, 
galbanum 1 part, spirit of wine 4 parts. 
Soak the isinglass in water with admix- 
ture of a little spirit of wine and add the 
solution of the gums in the remainder 
of the spirit of wine. Before use, heat 
the diamond cement a little so as to 
soften it. Jewelers' cement is used for 
similar purposes as is the diamond ce- 
ment, and is prepared from: Isinglass 
(dry) 10 parts, mastic varnish 5 parts. 
Dissolve the isinglass in very little water, 
adding same strong spirit of wine. The 
mastic varnish is prepared by pouring 
a . mixture of highly rectified spirit or 
wine and benzine over finely powdered 
mastic and dissolving it in the smallest 
possible quantity of liquid. The two 
solutions of isinglass and mastic are in- 
timately ground together in a porcelain 
dish. 

_ Armenian Cement.— The celebrated 
Armenian" cement, so called formerly 

used by Turkish and Oriental jewelers 

generally for setting precious stones 
facing diamonds," rubies, etc., is made 

as follows: 

Mastic gum ..... 10 parts 

Isinglass (fish glue) . 20 parts 

Gum ammoniac ... . 5 parts 

A coho absolute.... 60 parts 

Akohol, 50 per cent. . 35 parts 

Ti . VVater 100 parts 

lcohoT 1V d e ;« h r ma u sti V n the absolute 
icohol, dissolve, by the a d of gentle 
eat, on the water bath, the isinglass in 

iconoi. Wow dissolve the ammoniac-urn 
P the residue of the dilute akohol. Add 



the first solution to the second, ai x +l 
oughly by agitation and then a H<i ?, 1 
solution of gum ammoniac and stir 
in. Finally put on the water bath 
keeping at a moderate heat, evanm^ 
the whole down to 175 parts. 

Cement for Enameled Dials T\. 

following is a good cement for enamdc 
dials, plates, or other pieces: Grind int 
a fine powder <Zl parts of dammar rosi 
and °Z\ parts of copal, using color 
pieces if possible. Next add 2 pai 
of Venetian turpentine and enough spit 
of wine so that the whole forms a thu 
paste. To this grind 3 parts of the fine 
zinc white. The mass now has 
consistency of prepared oil paint, 
remove the yellow tinge of the ceme 
add a trifle of Berlin blue to the zi 
white. Finally, the whole is heated ui 
the spirit of wine is driven off and a in 
en mass remains, which is allowed toL. 
and is kept for use. Heat the parts to 
cemented. 

Watch-Lid Cement. — The hardest ce 
ment for fixing on watch lids is sheila 
If the lids are exceedingly thin the 
graving will always press through, 
fore cementing it on the inside of the 1 
in order not to injure the polish, it 
coated with chalk dissolved in alcohol, 
which is first allowed to dry. Next melt 
the shellac on the stick, heat the watch 
lid and put it on. After the engraving 
has been done, simply force the lid oft and 
remove the remaining shellac from the 
latter by light tapping. If this does not 
remove it completely lay the lid in alco- 
hol, leaving it therein until all the shel- 
lac has dissolved. All that remains to be 
done now is to wash out the watch lid. 

Jewelers' Glue Cement.— Dissolve on 
a water bath 50 parts of fish glue "J 
a little 95-per-cent alcohol adding 4 
parts, by weight, of gum ammoniac. 
On the other hand, dissolve 2 parts. W 
weight, of mastic in 10 parts, by wagM. 
of alcohol. Mix these two solutions anu 
preserve in a well-corked flask. _ 
use it suffices to soften it on the 
bath. 

Casein Cements. — 

I. — Borax 5 P 8 ? 

Water 95 P arts 

Casein, sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the borax in water andj 1 
corporate enough casein to p r0 
mass of the proper consistency. 
. II.— The casern is made feebly »* 
line by means of soda or potash ij 



then subjected for about 24 hours to a 
temperature of 140° F. Next follow 
the customary admixture, such as lime 
and water glass, and finally, to accom- 
plish a quicker resinification, substances 
containing tannin are added. For tan- 
nic admixtures to the partially disinte- 
grated casein, slight quantities — about 
1 per cent — of gallic acid, cutch, or 
quercilannic acid are employed. The 
feebly alkaline casein cement contain- 
ing tannic acid is used in the well-known 
manner for the gluing together of wood. 

For Metals. — Make a paste with 16 
ounces casein, 20 ounces slaked lime, and 
SO ounces of sand, in water. 

For Glass. — I. — Dissolve casein in a 
concentrated solution of borax. 

— Make a paste of casein and 
water glass. 

Pasteboard and Paper Cement.— I.— 

Let pure glue swell in cold water; pour 
and press off the excess; put on the 
water bath and melt. _ Paper or other 
material cemented with this is then 
immediately, before the cement dries, 
submitted to the action of formaldehyde 
and dried. The cement resists the action 
of water, even hot. 

II. — Melt together equal parts of 
good pitch and gutta percha. To 9 

{>arts of this mass add 3 parts of boiled 
inseed oil and £ part litharge. The 
heat is kept up until, with constant 
stirring, an intimate union of all the in- 
gredients has taken place. The mix- 
ture is diluted with a little benzine or 
oil of turpentine and applied while still 
■warm. The cement is waterproof. 

III. —The National Druggist says 
that experience with pasting or cement- 
ing parchment paper seems to show 
that about the best agent is casein 
cement, made by dissolving casein in 
a saturated aqueous solution of borax. 

IV. — The following is recommended 
or paper boxes: 

Chloral hydrate 5 parts 

Gelatin, white 8 parts 

Gurro arabic 2 parts 

Boiling water 30 parts 

Mix the chloral, gelatin, and gum 
arabic in a porcelain container, pour the 
boiling water over the mixture and let. 
stand for 1 day, giving it a vigorous 
stirring several times during the day. 
An cold weather this is apt to get hard 
and stiff, but this may be obviated by 
standing the container in warm water 
tor a few minutes. This paste adheres 
to any surface whatever. 



Waterproof Cements for Glass, Stone- 
ware, and Metal. -I._Make a paste of 
bXd U oil ammomac ' ir ™ filing* and 

II. — Mix together dry ; Whitine, 
pounds; plaster of Paris, 3 pounds 
sand, 3 pounds; litharge, 3 pounds 
rosin, 1 pound. Make to a paste wi 
copal varnish. 

III. — Make a paste of boiled oil 6 
pounds; copal, 6 pounds; litharge, 2 
pounds; white lead, 1 pound. 

IV. — Make a paste with boiled oil, 
3 pounds; brickdust 2 pounds; dry 
slaked lime, 1 pound. 

V. — Dissolve 93 ounces of alum an 
93 ounces of sugar of lead in water t 
concentration. Dissolve separately 15 
ounces of gum arabic in 25 gallons 
water, and then stir in 62$ pounds 
flour. Then heat to a uniform past 
with the metallic salts, but take care n 
to boil the mass. 

VI. — For Iron and Marble to Stand i 
Heat. — In S pounds of water dissolv 
first, 1 pound water glass and then 
pound of borax. With the solutio 
make 2 pounds of clay and 1 pound 
barytes, first mixed dry, to a paste. 

VII. — Glue to Resist Boiling Water. 
Dissolve separately in water 55 poun 
of glue and a mixture of 40 pounds 
bichromate and 5 pounds of alum, 
as wanted. 

VIII. (Chinese Glue). — Dissolve she 
lac in 10 times its weight of ammonia. 

IX. — Make a paste of 40 ounces 
dry slaked lime 10 ounces of alum, a 
50 ounces of white of egg. 

X.— Alcohol 1,000 parts 

Sandarac .... 60 parts 

Mastic 60 parts 

Turpentine oil 60 parts 

Dissolve the gurus in the alcohol an 
add the oil and stir in. Now prepar 
a solution of equal parts of glue an 
isinglass, by soalung 125 parts of each 
in cold water until it becomes saturated, 
pouring and pressing off the residue, i an 
melting on the water bath. This shoal 
produce a volume of glue nearly equal 
to that of the solution of gums Ihe 
latter should, in the meantime have 
been cautiously raised to the * boihn 
point on the water bath, and then mixe 
with the hot glue solution. 

It is said that articles united wit 
this substance will stond the strain 
cold water for an unlimited time an 
it takes hot water even a long time i 
affect it* 



XI .—Burgundy pitch 6 parts 

Gutta percba.- 1 part 

Pumice stone, in fine 

powder 3 parts 

Melt the gutta percha very carefully, 
odd the pumice stone, and lastly the 
pitch, and stir until homogeneous. 

Use while still hot. This cement will 
withstand water and dilute mineral 
acids. 

LEATHER AND RUBBER CEMENTS. 

I. — Use a melted mixture of gutta 
percha and genuine asphalt, applied 
hot. The hard-rubber goods must be 
kept pressed together until the cement 
has cooled. 

II, — A cement which is effective for 
cementing rubber to iron and which is 
especially valuable for fastening rub- 
ber bands to bandsaw wheels is made 
as follows: Powdered shellac, 1 part; 
strong water of ammonia, 10 parts. Put 
the shellac in the ammonia water and 
set it away in a tightly closed jar for 
3 or 4 weeks, By that time the mixture 
will become a perfectly liquid transpar- 
ent mass and is then ready for use. 
When applied to rubber the ammonia 
softens it, but it quickly evaporates, leav- 
ing the rubber in the same condition as 
before. The shellac clings to the iron 
and thus forms a firm bond between the 
iron and the rubber. 

III. — Gutta percha, white. 1 drachm 
Carbon disulphide . . 1 ounce 

Dissolve, filter, and add: 

India rubber 15 grains 

Dissolve. 

Cement for Metal on Hard Rubber.— 

I. — Soak good Cologne glue and boil down 
so as to give it the consistency of joiners' 
glue, and add. with constant stirring, 
enough sifted wood ashes until a homo- 
geneous, moderately thick mass results. 
Use warm and fit the pieces well together 
while drying. 

How to Unite Rubbei and Leather. — 

II. — Roughen both suriaces, the leather 
and the rubber, with a sharp glass edge; 
apply to both a diluted solution of gutta 
percha in carbon bisulphide, and let this 
solution soak into the material. Then 
press upon each surface a skin of gutta 

Pe ii a M. of an inch in thinness between 
rolls. The two surfaces are now united 
in a press, which should be warm but not 
aot. lhis method should answer in all 
cases in which it is applicable. The 
other prescription covers eases in which 
a press cannot be used. Cut 30 parts of 
rubber into small pieces, and dissolve 



it in 140 parts of carbon bisulphide, the 
vessel being placed on a water bath rrf 
30° C. (86° P.). Further, melt 10 par?* 
of rubber with 15 of colophony, and add 
35 parts of oil of turpentine. When the 
rubber has been completely dissolved 
the two liquids may be mixed. The 
resulting cement must be kept well 
corked. 

To Fasten Rubber to Wood,— 

Make a cement by macerating virgin 
gum rubber, or as pure rubber as can be 
had, cut in small pieces, in just enough 
naphtha or gasoline to cover it. Let it 
stand in a very tightly corked or sealed 
jar for 14 days, or a sufficient time to 
become dissolved, shaking the mixture 
daily. 

II. — Dissolve pulverized gum shellae, 
1 ounce, in 9 A ounces of strong ammonia. 
This of course must be kept tightly 
corked. It will not be as elastic as the 
first preparation. 

III. — Fuse together shellac and gutta 
percha in equal weights. 

IV. — India rubber. ..... . Bounces 

Gutta percha 4 ounces 

Isinglass 2 ounces 

Bisulphide of carbon 32 ounces 

V. — India rubber. 5 ounces 

Gum mastic 1 ounce 

Chloroform 3 ounces 

VI. — Gutta percha 16 ounces 

India rubber 4 ounces 

Pitch 4 ounces 

Shellac 1 ounce 

Linseed oil 1 ounce 

Amalgamate by heat. 

VII. — Mix 1 ounce of oi! of turpentine 
with 10 ounces of bisulphide of carbon in 
which as much gutLa percha as possible 
has been dissolved. 

VIII. — Amalgamate by heat: 

Gutta percha 100 ounces 

Venice turpentine. 80 ounces 

Shellac 8 ounces 

India rubber 2 ounces 

Liquid storax 10 ounces 

IX. — Amalgamate by heat: 

India rubber 100 ounces 

Rosin 15 ounces 

Shellac 10 ounces 

Then dissolve in bisuJohide of carbon. 

X.— Make the following solutionis sep- 
arately and mix: 

(a) India rubber 5 ounces 

Chloroform 140 ounces 

(6) India rubber 5 ounces 

Rosin 2 ounces 

Venice turpentine. 1 ounce 
Oil of turpentine. . 20 ounce* 



ADHESIVES 



Cement for Patching Rubber Boots 
and Shoes. — 

I, — India rubber, finely- 
chopped 100 parts 

Rosin 15 parts 

Shellac 10 parts 

Carbon disulphide, 
q. s, to dissolve. 
This will not only unite leather to 
leather, india rubber, etc., but will unite 
rubber to almost any substance. 

H. — Caoutchouc, finely cut 4 parts 
India rubber, finely 

cut 1 part 

Carbon disulphide... 32 parts 

Dissolve the caoutchouc in the carbon 
disulphide, add the rubber, let macer- 
ate a few days, then mash with a palette 
knife to a smooth paste. The vessel in 
which the solution is made in both 
instances above must be kept tightly 
closed, and should have frequent agita- 
tions. 

III.^Take 100 parts ofcrude rubber 
or caoutchouc, cut it up in small bits, 
and dissolve it in sufficient carbon bisul- 
phide, add to it 15 parts of rosin and 
10 parts of gum lac. The user must 
not overlook the great inflammability and 
exceedingly volatile nature of the carbon 
bisulphide. 

Tire Cements. — 

I. — India rubber 15 grams 

Chloroform 2 ounces 

Mastic $ ounce 

Mix the india rubber and chloroform 
;ogether, and when dissolved, the mastic 
I added in powder. It is then allowed 
o stand a week or two before using. 

II. — The following is recommended as 
r ery good for cementing pneumatic tires to 
iicyde wheels: 

Shellac 1 ounce 

Gutta percha 1 ounce 

Sulphur 45 grains 

Red lead 45 grains 

I , ^felt together the shellac and gutta per. 
*ha, then add, with constant stirring, the 
sinphur and red lead. Use while hot. 
— Raw gutta percha . . 1 6 ounces 
Carbon bisulphide. 1% ounces 
Eau de Cologne. ... 2§ ounces 
This cement is the subject of an Eng. 
ash patent and is recommended for 
patching cycle and motor tires, insulat- 
ing electric wires, etc. 
J^C~ A good thick shellac varnish with 
wnich a small amount of castor oil has 
Been mixed will be found a very excellent 
icyde rim cement. The formula rec- 
tomunded by Ed el is as follows: 



Shellac * . 

A^oho. \*$* 

Mix and dissolve, then add; 

Castor oil 4 ' ounce 

The castor oil prevents the cem 
from becoming hard and brittle 

A cement used to fasten bicycle tir 
may be made by melting together at 
gentle heat equal parts of gutta perch 
and asphalt. Apply hot. Sometimes 
small quantity each of sulphur and r 
lead is added (about 1 part of each to % 
parts of cement). 

Cements for Leather. — 

I. — Gutta percha 20 parts 

Syrian asphalt, pow- 
dered 20 parts 

Carbon disulphide.. 50 parts 
Oil of turpentine ... 10 parts 
_ The gutta percha, shredded fine, ■ .„ 
dissolved in the carbon disulphide and 
turpentine oil. To the solution add the 
asphalt and set away for several days, 
or until the asphalt is dissolved. The 
cement should have the consistency of 
honey. If the preparation is thinner 
than this let it stand, open, for a few 
days. Articles to be patched should 
first De washed with benzine. 

II. — Glue 1 ounce 

•Starch paste ......... 2 ounces 

Turpentine 1 drachm 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the glue in sufficient wa' 
with heat; mix the starch paste wi 
water; add the turpentine, and fina 
mix with the glue while hot. 

III. — Soak for one day 1 pound of co 
mon glue in enough water to cover, a 
1 pound of isinglass in ale dropping 
Then mix together and heat gently u 
til boiling. At this point add a lit 

Eure tannin and keep boiling for a 
our. If the glue and isinglass whe 
mixed arc too thick, add water. T 
cement should be used warm and t 
jointed leather pressed tightly togeth 
for 12 hours. , 

IV. — A waterproof cement for leatJi 
caoutchouc, or balata, is prepared b 
dissolving gutta percha, caoutcnou 
benzoin, gum lac, mastic, etc., in sons 
convenient solvent like carbon disuj 
phide, chloroform, ether, _ or alcohol. 
The best solvent, however, m the case o 
gutta percha, is carbon disulphide, an 
tther for mastic. The most favoraW 
proportions are as follows : Gutta percha 
200 to 300 parts to 100 parts of the sol 
vent, and 75 to 85 parts »f mastic to 10 
parts of ether. From 5 to 8 parts 
the former solution are mixed wito 



ADHESIVES 



mrt of the latter, and the mixture is 
K boiled on the water. bath, or m a 
vessel fitted with a water jac ket 

V —Make a solution oi 20U to ^uu 
parte of caoutchouc.gutta percha india 
rubber, benzoin, or similar gum, in 1,000 
parts of carbon disulphide chlorofornn 
ether, or alcohol, and of this add 5 to 8 
parts to a solution of mastic (75 to 
Parts) in ether 100 parts, of equal volume 
and boil together. Use hot water as the 
boiling agent, or boil very cautiously on 
the water bath. 

VI —Forty parts of aluminum ace- 
tate, 10° B., 10 parts of glue, 10 parts 
of rye flour. These materials are either 
to be simultaneously mixed and boiled, 
or else the glue is to be dissolved in the 
aluminum acetate, and the flour stirred 
into the solution. This is an excellent 
cement for leather, and is used in so- 
called art work with leather, and with 
leather articles which are made of sev- 
eral pieces. It is to be applied warm. 

Rubber Cement for Cloth.— The fol- 
lowing formulas have been recommended: 

I. — Caoutchouc, 5 parts; chloroform, 
3 parts. Dissolve and add gum mastic 
(powder) 1 part. 

II. — Griitta percha, IS parts; india rub- 
ber, 4 . parts; pitch, 2 parts; shellac, 1 
part; linseed oil, 2 parts. Reduce the 
solids to small pieces, melt together with 
the oil and mix well. 

III. — The following cement for mend- 
ing .rubber shoes and tires will answer 
similar purposes : 

Caoutchouc in shavings . , 10) p arts 

Rosin 4 I by 

Gum turpentine 40 j w eight. 

Oil turpentine, enough. 
Melt together first the caoutchouc and 
rosin, then add the gum turpentine, and 
when all is liquefied, add enough of oil 
of turpentine to preserve it liquid A 
second solution is prepared by dissolv- 
ing together : 

Caoutchouc io ) Parts 

Chloroform... oen r by 

„ , * au ) weight. 

W-.k" U ^ th f ^ tw ? sohl ^ons are mixed. 

over w'\v, e ^ h ° Ie ln the rubber snoe 
over w th the cement, then a p i ec e of 
hnen d ippe d in it is placed over it as 
cedent tl™ ^T 5 t0 ^ -le *th 
quTrS! aPpll6d aS thickl r as re - 

CE ^NTS FOR METALS AJTD FOR AT- 

t&alI^ 10118 ^stances 

Cements for Iron T TV i 

*ood cement for i^n ou^Jn, make t 



thick paste, with water, of Po , 
iron, 60 parts; sal ammoniac 2 e( 5 
and sulphur flowers, 1 part. TTsa?.^ 
fresh. 86 

II. —Sulphur flowers, 6 p arts . , 
white lead 6 parts, and powderprl k ^ 
1 part. Mix by sifting and keen » ' 
dry powder in a closed tin box. To % 
make into a thin paste with strong US ?* 
phuric acid and press together im^j- 
ately. This cement wilf harder^; 
days. s 

^.-gapliitc 50 pounds 

Whiting 15 pounds 

Litharge 15 pounds 

Make to a paste with a boiled oil. 

IV. — Make a paste of white lead and 
asbestos. 

V. — Make a paste of litharge and glye. 
erine. Red lead may be added. This 
also does for stone. 

VI. — Make a paste of boiled oil of 
equal parts of white lead, pipe clay, and 
black oxide of manganese. 

VII. — Make iron filings to a paste with 
water glass. 

VIII. — Sal ammoniac. ... 4 ounces 

Sulphur 2 ounces 

Iron filings 32 ounces 

Make as much as is to be used at once 
to a paste with a little water. This re- 
mark applies to both the following dry 

recipes: 

IX. — Iron filings 160 ounces 

Lime 80 ounces 

Red lead 16 ounces 

Alum 8 ounces 

Sal ammoniac 2 ounces 

X. — Clay 10 ounces 

Iron filings 4 ounces 

Salt 1 ounce 

Borax 1 ounce 

Black oxide of 

manganese ... 2 ounces 

XI.— Mix: 

Iron filings 180 ounces 

Lime 45 ounces 

Salt 8 ounces 

XII.— Mix: 

Iron filings 140 ounces 

Hydraulic lime . . 20 ounces 

Sand 25 ounces 

Sal ammoniac... S ounces 
Either of these last two m ixt H re . s „ ar 
made into a paste with strong vines 
just before use. , „: 0 c 

XIII. — Mix equal weights of » 
oxide and black oxide of mang^ 
into a paste with water glass. 

XIV. — Copal varnish, 15 parts, % 
drated lime, 10 parts; glue de *f r ' rtW 
sinews), 5 parts; fat drying oil, *> V 



powdered turpentine, 3 parts; essence of 
turpentine, 2 parts. Dissolve the glue 
de nerfs oil the water bath, add all the 
other substances, and triturate inti- 
mately- 

XV, — Copal varnish, 15 parts; pow- 
dered turpentine, 3 parts; essence of tur- 
pentine, 2 parts; powdered fish glue, 3 
parts; iron filings, 3 parts; ocher, 10 
parts. 

XVI. — To make a cement for cast iron, 
take 16 ounces cast-iron borings; 2 ounces 
sal ammoniac, and 1 ounce sulphur. Mix 
well and keep dry. When ready to use 
take 1 part of this powder to 20 parts of 
cast-iron borings and mix thoroughly into 
a stiff paste, adding a little water, 

XVII. — Litharge 2 parts 

Boiled linseed oil 2 parts 

White lead 1 part 

Copal 1 part 

Heat together until of a uniform con- 
sistence and apply warm. 

XVIII. — A cement for iron which is 
said to he perfectly waterproof and fire- 
proof is made by working up a mixture 
of equal weights of red lead and litharge 
with glycerine till the mass is perfectly 
homogeneous and has the consistency 
of a glazier's putty. This cement is 
said to answer well, even for very large 
irun vessels, and to be unsurpassable for 
stopping up cracks in large iron pans of 
steam pipes. 

Cement for Metal, Glass, and Porce- 
lain. — A soft alloy is prepared by mixing 
from 30 to 36 parts of copper precipi- 
tated in the form of a fine brown powder, 
Wlta sulphuric acid of a specific gravity 
+ j - U1 a cast - iron or porcelain mor- 
tar and incorporating by stirring with 75 
Parts of mercury, the acid being after- 
wards removed by washing with water, 
in from 10 to 14 hours the amalgam be- 
K% ha . rder than tin - but when heated to 
W ' Jt can be kneaded like wax. In 
wis condition it is applied to the surface 
to be cemented, and will fix them firmly 
together on cooling. 

Dissolve 1 drachm of gum mastic in 3 
llt? hms °* s Pi"ts of wine. In a sep- 
«e vessel containing water soak 3 
Jof j S , ls . ln glass. When th orouffnly 
S e take !t out of the ^ter and put 
a 12° drachms °f spirits of wine. Take 
|«ece ot gum ammoniacum the size of 
liHlo 86 pea and Srind it up finely with a 
it hL s P'. nts of wine and isinglass until 
t JS£ SSO ved " Then ™ix ^e whole 
foK er Wlth sufficient heat. It will be 
Vm!»i m ° at , con venient to place the 
"esse! on a hot- water bath. Keep this 



cement m a bottle closely stoppered 
when it is to be used, place it in v 
water until dissolved. " h 

Cements for Fastening Porcelain t 
Metal, I. Mix equal parts of alcoh 
(95 per cent) and water, and make 

f^ZZ ? nC t P ulveri ^d chalk an 
2*0 parts of starch. 

qa? *~¥ iX fi ^ ly P° wd cred burned lim 
JUU parts, with powdered starch %l 
parts, and moisten the mixture with' 
compound of equal parts of water an 
alcohol of 95 per cent until a past 
results. r 

III-— Cement or plaster can be us 
it the surfaces are sufficiently larg 
cement is the better article when f 
object may be exposed to moisture o 
subjected to much pressure. A proce 
which can be recommended consists i 
mingling equal weights of chalk, brie 
dust, clay, and Romain cement. The 
materials, pulverized and sifted, are i 
eorporated with linseed oil in the pr 
portion of half a kilo of oil to 3 kilos 
the mingled powder. The Romain 
Romanic cement is so designated fro 
the district in France where the cal 
reous stone from which it is prepared 
found in considerable quantity. * 
though its adhesive qualities are unquf 
tioned, there are undoubtedly America 
cements equally as good. 

IV. — Acetate of lead, 46 \ parts b. 
weight; alum, 46 \ parts by weigh 
gum arabic, 76 parts by weight; fiou 
500 parts by weight; water, 2,000 par 
by weight. " Dissolve the acetate of lea 
and the alum in a little water; on th 
other hand dissolve the gum arabic i 
water by pouring, for instance, the | 
liters of boiling water on the gum arabi 
reduced to powder. When the gum ha 
dissolved, add the flower, put all on th 
fire, and stir well with a piece of wood; 
then add the solution of acetate of lead 
and the alum; agitate well so as to pre- 
vent any lumps from forming; retire fro 
the fire before allowing to bod. inij 
glue is used cold, does not peel off, and 
is excellent to make wood, glass, card 
board, etc, adhere to metals. 

Cement for Leather and Iron.— To 
face a cast-iron pulley with leather apply 
acetic acid to the face of the pulley with 
a brush, which will roughen it by rusting- 
and then when dry apply a cement made 
of 1 pound of fish glue and 4 pound of 
common glue, melted m a mixture of 
alcohol and water. The f^er should 
then be placed on the pulley and dried 
under pressure. 



26 



ADHESIVES 



to- 



A^r C^ments.-I.-To polder 
C*5. fl?. SfS^to'ta "united and 



Bligh tL h t tem wit3T»"soiulion of caustic 
SSMS^tt. two piece, together 

quickly 



Tf -Dissolve m a closed bottle 75 
.arts of cut up caoutchouc in 60 parts of 
Chloroform, ^dd IS parts of mastic and 
let the mixture stand in the cold until all 
has dissolved. . . 

Ill —Moisten the pieces to be joined 
with caustic potash and press them to- 
gether when warm. The union is so 
perfect that no trace of the juncture is 
visible. A concentrated alcoholic solu- 
tion of the rosin over the amber, soluble 
in alcohol, is also employed for this pur- 
pose. Another medium is a solution 
of hard and very Gnely powdered copal 
ia pure sulphuric ether. Coat both 
fractures, previously well cleaned, with 
this solution and endeavor to combine 
them intimately by tying or pressing. 

IV.— In 30 parts by weight of copal 
dissolve 30 parts by weight of alumina 
by means of a water bath. Bathe the 
surface to be cemented with this gelat- 
5US liquid, but very slightly. Unite 
i fractures and press them together 
rmly until the mixture is dry. 

Acid-Proof Cements for Stoneware 
d Glass. — I, — Mix with the aid of heat 
qua! weights of pitch, rosin, and plaster 
f Paris. 

II. — Mix silicate of soda to a paste 
ith ground glass. 

III. — Mix boiled oil to a paste with 
china clay. 

IV. — Mix coal tar to a paste with 
pipe clay. 

V. — Mix boiled oil to a paste with 
quicklime. 

VI. — Mix with the aid of heat: Sul- 
phur, 100 pounds; tallow, g pounds; 
rosin, 2 pounds. Thicken with ground 
glass, 

VII. — Mix with the aid of heat: 
Kosin 2 pounds; sulphur, 2 pounds: 
brickdust, 4 pounds. 

VI i L- 7 Mix witt the aid of heat 2 
pounds of india rubber and 4 pounds of 
boiled oil. Thicken with 12 pounds of 
pipe clay. 

IX.— Fuse 100 pounds of india rub- 
ber with 7 pounds of tallow. Then 

fiS? L P „ aste with dr y slaked lime and 
finally add 20 pounds of red lead, 

!i. P°^ nd Ved oeher, g pounds; boiled 
Oil, 2 pounds; plaster of Paris, 4 pounds! 



Acid-Proof Cement for Wood M 6ta , 
etc. — ' Wl3 j 

I. — Powdered asbestos ... 2 part 

Ground baryta \ j> art 

Sodium water-glass so- 

lution 2 parts 

Mis. 

II.— To withstand hot nitric acid th 
following is used: lQe 

Sodium water-glass so- 

„ ^tion a patts 

Sand i p aTt 

Asbestos i part 

Mix, 

HI- — Asbestos _ 2 parts 

" Sulphate of barium ..." 3 parts 
Silicate of sodium .... 2 parts 
By mixing these ingredients a cement 
strong enough to resist the strongest 
nitric acid will be obtained. 

IV. — If hot acids are dealt with, the 
following mixture will be found to possess 
still more resistant powers: 
Silicate of sodium (50° 

Baume) 2 parts 

Fine sand 1 part 

Asbestos 1 part 

Both these cements take a few hours 
to set. If the cement is wanted to set 
at once, use silicate of potassium, instead 
of silicate of sodium. This mixture will 
be instantly effective and possesses the 
same power of resistance as the other. 

Directions for Repairing Broken Glass, 
Porcelain, Bric-i-Brac — Broken glass, 
china, bric-a-brac, and_ picture frames, 
not to name casts, require each a differ- 
ent cement — in fact, several different 
cements. Glass may be beautifully 
mended to look at, but seldom so as to 
be safely used. For clear glass the best 
cement is isinglass dissolved in gin. ru 
2 ounces of isinglass in a clean, wide- 
mouthed bottle, add half a pint ot gin, 
and set in the sun until dissolved, ohuso 
well every day, and before using stram 
through double lawn, squeezing very 
gently. 

Spread a white cloth over the mend- 
ing table and supply it with P le , n *J ds 
clean linen rags, strong rubber d rf 
and narrow white tape, also a DB ^ flS [, 
tepid water and a clean soft towel. ^ 
the broken glass very clean, espe ^ 
along the break, but take care 
chin it further. Wet both broken ^ 
well with the glue, using a came ^ 
pencil. Fit the break to a mce V' cr0 sS' 
slip on rubber bands length- » na j f the y 
wise, every way they will hold. pJBe d 
will not hold tine as upon a sic 



ADHESIVES 



thing, a vase or jug or scent bottle, 
string half a dozen bands of the same 
size and strength upon a bit of tape, and 
tie the tape about neck or base before 
beginning the gluing. After the parts 
are joined slip another tape through the 
same bands and ue it above the fracture; 
thus with all their strength the bands 
pull the break together. The bands can 
be used thus on casts of china— in fact, 
to hold anything mendable. In glass 
mending the greater the pressure the 
better — if only it stops short of the break- 
ing point. Properly made the isinglass 
cement is as clear as water. When the 
pieces fit true one on the other the break 
should be hardly visible, if the pressure 
has been great enough to force out the 
tiny bubbles, which otherwise refract 
the light and make the line of cleavage 
distressingly apparent. Mended glass 
may be used to hold dry things — as rose 
leaves, sachets, violet powder, even can- 
dies and fruits. But it will not bear 
to have any sort of liquid left standing 
in it, nor to be washed beyond a quick 
rinsing in tepid water. In wiping al ways 
use a very soft towel, and pat the vessel 
dry with due regard to its infirmities. 
_ Mend a lamp loose in the collar with 
sifted plaster of Paris mixed to a very 
soft paste with beaten white of egg. 
Have everything ready before wetting 
up the plaster, and work quickly so it. 
may set in place. With several lamps to 
mend wet enough plaster for one at a 
time. It takes less than 5 minutes to 
set, and is utterly worthless if one tries 
working it over. Metal work apart 
from the glass needs the soldering iron. 
l>ust the break well with powdered rosin, 
tie the parts firmly together, lay the stick 
Of solder above the break, and fetch the 
iron down on it lightly but firmly. When 
the solder cools, remove the melted rosin 
with a cloth dipped in alcohol. 

bince breakables have so unhappy a 
knack of fracturing themselves in such 
iasJiion they cannot possibly stand up- 
right, one needs a sand box. It is only 
a box of handy size with 8 inches of 
clean, coarse sand in the bottom. Along 
^itn it there should be some small leaden 
weights, with rings cast in them, run- 
mng from an ounce to a quarter pound. 
J- wo oi each weight are needed. In use, 
tapes are tied to the rings, and the pair of 
weights swung outside the edges of the 
oox so as to press in place the upper 
Part of a broken thing to which the tapes 
have been fastened. 

Set broken platters on edge in the sand 

KuTi. th tl i. e break U P- The sand will 
uoid them firm, and the broken bit can 




p'fate^di^rs.^ ^ 
monly, requires weigh°tin g *&? 
fine pieces where an mvilihU =L - y 
wanted should be heldftSS ^ ^^^1: 
set, then have the paxr of heavTest weights 
accurately balanced across the broken 
piece. The weights are also very useful 
to prop and stay topheavy articles and 
balance them so they shall not get out 
of kilter A cup broken, as is s feom 
mon with cups, can have the tape passed 
around xt crossing inside the* handle 
then be set firmly in the sand, face down! 
and be held by the hanging weights 
pulling one against the other 
f The most dependable cement for china 
is pure white lead, ground in linseed oil 
so thick it will barely spread smoothly 
with a knife. Given time enough to- 
harden (some 3 months), it makes a seam 
practically indestructible. The objec- 
tion to it is that it always shows in a 
staring white line. A better cerrent for 
fine china is white of egg and plaster. Sif i 
the plaster three times and tie a generous 
pinch of it loosely in mosquito netting. 
Then beat the egg until it will stick to 
the plaster. Have the broken egg very 
clean, cover both with the beaten «gg, 
dust well with the plaster, fit together at 
once, tie, using rubber bands if possible, 
wrap loosely in very soft tissue paper, 
and bury head and ears in the sand box, 
taking care that the break lies so that 
the sand will hold it together. Leave in 
the box £4 hours. After a week the su- 
perfluous plaster may be gently scraped 
away. 

General Formulas for Cements for 
Repairing Porcelain, Glassware, Crock- 
ery, Plaster, and Meerschaum. — I.— 
An excellent cement for joining broken 
crockery and similar small articles can 
be made by melting 4 or 5 parts of rosin 
(or, better still, gum mastic) with 1 part 
of beeswax in an iron spoon or similar 
vessel. Apply while hot. It will not 
Stand great neat. 

II, — An excellent cement for porcelain 
and stoneware is obtained by mixing 20 
parts of fish glue with an equal weight 
of crystallizable acetic acid and evapo- 
rate the mixture carefully to a syrupy 
consistency so that it forms a gelatinous 
mass on cooling. For use tht cement 
thus obtained is made liquid a^ain by 
heating and applied to the fracture with 
a brush. The pieces should now be 
pressed firmly together, by winding a 
twine tightly around them, until trie 
cement' has hardened. 

T IT . For luting vessels made of glass, 



ADHESIVES 



porcelain, etc wMrf .are Jo J- Wto 

£. r (permanent white, sand, etc. J is rec 
dcr tp , j To heerin with, asbestos 
nowder is made into a pulp with tnree 

P - the quantity (weight) of a 

lass (or 



fluid, being careful not to let it camp 
a boil, as this injures its adhesive pror? 
erties (the same may be said in rcear l 
to glues and gelatins of all kinds). %\ 



or four times 
solution of soda_ w^er 
B ). The same is exceedingly fat ana 
clastic, but is not very well suited for 
working, as it shrinks too much and 
Sk" when drying. By an addition of 
fin* writing sand of the same weight 
as "the asbestos used, the mass can be 
made less fat, so as to obviate shrinking, 
without detracting from the plasticity. 
Small vessels were molded from it and 
dried in the air, to be tested afterwards. 
Put in water, the hardened mass becomes 
soft again and falls apart. Brought into 
contact, however, with very strong min- 
eral acids, it becomes even firmer and 
withstands the liquid perfectly. Con- 
centrated nitric acid was kept in such 
small vessels without the mass being 
visibly attacked or anything penetrating 
it. The action of the acid manifestly 
has the effect that silicic acid is set free 
from the water glass in excess, which 
c1q,;s up the pores < entirely and con- 
tributes to the lutation Later on, the 
mas? cannot be dissolved by pure water 
any more. The mass is also highly fire- 
prooi One of the molded bodies can 
be kept glowing in a Bunsen gas flame 
for about half a day after treatment with 
acid, without slagging in the least. For 
many purposes it ought to be welcome 
to have such a mass at hand. It cannot 
be kept ready for use, however, as it 
hardens a few hours after being pre- 
pared; if potash water glass is used, in- 
stead of the soda composition, this in- 
duration takes place still more quickly. 

IV.— Cement foi Glass, Porcelain, etc. 
Isinglass (fish gluet .. 50 parts 
Gum ammoniac. . , . 

Gum mastic 

Alcohol, 95 per cent . 
Water, q. s. 

Soak the isinglass in cold water over 
night, or until it has become swollen and 
soft throughout. In the morning throw 
ott any superfluous fluid and throw the 
isinglass on a clean towel or other coarse 
cloth and hang it up in such a way that 
any free residual water will drain awav 
Upon doing this thoroughly depends, fn 
a great measure, the strength of the 
SE? m S.i™^ the § elatin has become 

nr n^ ghIy P Ut & a flask 

hlth « i C u nt ; mer ' P race k in the ™tcr 
bath and heat carefully until it becomes 



4 parts 
1 parts 
10 parts 



solve the gums in the alcohol arid add 
the solution to the gelatin after remov 
ing the same from the water bath, and 
letting it cool down to about ieb° R 
Stir well together or mix by agitation ' 
The following precautions must* be 
observed: 1. Both surfaces to be joined 
must be absolutely clean, free from dust 
dirt, grease, etc. _ 2. Where the cement 
is one that requires the application of 
heat before use, the objects to be united 
should also be heated to a point at least 
as high as the melting point of the cement. 
Otherwise, the cement on application is 
chilled and consequently fails to make a 
lasting joint. 3. The thinner the layer 
of cement the stronger the joint; avoid, 
therefore, using too much of the binding 
material. Cover both surfaces to be 
united, coapt them exactly, and press 
together as closely as possible. In this 
manner the thinnest possible layer is 
secured. 4. Bind the parts securely to- 
gether, and let remain without loosening 
or attempting to use the article for 2 or 
3 days or longer. A liquid cement ac- 
quires its full strength only after evapor- 
ation of the fluids used as solvents, and 
this can occur only from the infinitesimal 
line of exposed surface. 

V. — Liquid Porcelain Cement. — Fish 
glue, 20 parts; glass acetic acid, 20 parts; 
heat together until the mass gelatinizes 
on cooling. 

VI. — Take 1 ounce of Russian ism- 
glass, cut in small pieces, and bruise 
well; then add 6 ounces of warm water, 
and leave it in a warm place for from 
24 to 48 hours. Evaporate the re- 
sulting solution to about 3 ounces. 
Next dissolve \ ounce of mastic in « 
ounces of alcohol, and add the mastic 
solution to the isinglass in small quan- 
tities at a time, continuing the heat anu 
stirring well. While still hot strain tne 
liquid through muslin. , , i 

\IL— For optical glasses, Canada fc*" 
sam is emploved, the two pieces being nn« 
ly pressed together. After a while, t»v 
cially by humidity, punctures will" j 
and the glass is separated by a j. ^ eS 
varying reflexes, while in certain en ^ 
the heat will melt the balsam- , 
other glass articles which r ^ ll i r L ver s, 
simple treatment, such as knobs ol ^ 
plates, etc., silicate of potash u> c 

VIII.— Glass Cement.— Dissolve ' n Jj fl 
parts of acetic acid of 96 per cem, 



ADHESIVES 



parts of gelatin by the use of heat, and 
add ammonium bichromate, 5 parts. 
This glue must be kept away from the 
light 

IX.— White glue. . 10 parts 

Potassium bichromate £ parts 

Water 100 parts 

The glue is dissolved in a portion of 
the water by the aid of heat, the bichro- 
mate in the remainder, and the liquids 
mixed, the mixing being done in a feebly 
lighted place, and the mixture is then 
kept in the dark. It is applied in feeble 
light, being reliquefied by gentle heat, 
and the glass, the fractured pieces being 
tightly clamped together, is then exposed 
to a strong light for some time. By this 
exposure the cement becomes insoluble. 
This is waterproof cement for glass. 

X. — Diamond Glass Cement. — Dis- 
solve 100 parts of isinglass in 150 parts 
of 90 per cent alcohol and add, with con- 
stant stirring, 200 parts of powdered 
rosin. This cement must be preserved 
in absolutely tight bottles, as it solidifies 
very quickly. 

XI — To unite objects of crystal dis- 
solve 8 parts of caoutchouc and 100 parts 
of gum mastic in 600 parts of chloro- 
form. Set aside, hermetically closed, 
for 8 days; then apply with a brush, 
cold. 

XII. — To make a transparent cement 
for glass, digest together for a week in 
the cold 1 ounce of india rubber, 67 
ounces of chloroform, and 40 ounces of 
mastic. 

XIII. — A mixture of traumaticin, a 
solution of caoutchouc in chloroform, 
and a concentrated solution of water 
glass make a capital cement for unit- 
ing artmlcs of glass. Not only is the 
]omt very strong, but it is transparent. 
™her changes of temperature nor 

YTv e affect the cement - 
_ . . . A. transparent cement for por- 
celain is prepared by dissolving 75 parts 
Of mdia rubb— — - » " 

a bottle 

for 



s 

er, cut into small jieces, 
containing 60 parts chloro- 



LS +1 u ? add 15 P arts Sreen mastic. 
inor A ? , e staud in the cold until the 
served C become thoroughly dis- 

tio^ T,f~K S ° me ^ reparations resist the ac- 
« 1 ne at and moisture a short time, 

folL^ nerally yield ver y quickly. The 

W."V einent for § lass has proven 
*° st distant to liquids and heat: 



Silver litharge .... 1,000 parts 

? Wf. ad 50 Parts 

"oiled lmseed oil.. Mparts 
(-opal varnish 



50 parts 

3 

1 part 



anc 
ner 



Mix the lead and litharge thorough 
the oil and copal in t L sa ° m °e XJ. 



and 



preserve 



Whe 



net led for use," mix ir??^ 17 ' 
inc cated of tt p P G wSe^^ 
pa, s of the hquid) and kn?ad well to 

£ ? A l\ i PP i y t0 the ed £ e * of the e as 
bn d the broken parts together, and , 
sti nd for from M to 48 hours. 

>L VI.-— To reunite plaster articles di 
so ve small pieces of celluloid in ethe 

a quarter of an hour decant, and us, 
th ; pasty deposit which remains fo 
si taring the edges of the articles, 
dues rapidly and is insoluble in water 

XVII. — To Mend Wedgwood Mortar 
--It is easy enough to mend mortars 
that they may be used for making em. 
sions and other light work which do 
not tax their strength too much. B 
a mended mortar will hardly be able . 
stand the force required for powderim 
hard substances. A good cement f 
mending mortars is the following: 

a. — Glass flour elutriated. 10 parts 

Fluorspar, powdered 

_ and elutriated 20 parts 

Silicate of soda 60 parts 

Both glass and fluorspar must be h 
the finest possible condition, which 
best done by shaking each in fine po 
der, _ with water allowing the coars 
particles to deposit, and the^i to pour o 
the remainder, which hold •■ the fine: 
particles in suspension. T^e mixturi 
must be made very rapidly by quic 
stirring, and when thoroughly mixe 
must be at once applied. This is sai 
to yield an excellent cement. 

b. — Freshly burnt plaster 

of Paris 5 parts 

Freshly burnt lime 1 part 

White of egg, sufficient. 

Reduce the first two ingredients to 
very fine powder and mix them well; 
moisten the two surfaces to be united wit. 
a small quantity of white of egg to mak 
them adhesive; then mix the powder ver 
rapidly with the white of egg and appl 
the mixture to the broken surfaces. I 
they are large, two persons should do tnis, 
each applying the cement to one portion. 
The pieces are then firmly pressed to- 
gether and left undisturbed for several 
days. The less cement is used the better 
will the articles hold together. 

c _lf there is no objection to darlc- 
colored cement, the very best that can 
be used is probably marine glue, ims 
Is made thus: Ten parts of caoutchouc or 
india rubber are dissolved in 180 parts 
of benzine or petroleum naphtha, witn 



80 

the aid of a gentle heat. When Jhe «. 
Iution is complete, J \ n g * ts 0 f 

solvent has been dm en off. It is wen 
poured out and cart into glased tin 
£3da. It forms dark frown or black 
cakes which are very hard to M*aK. 
This cement requi .es cons derable heal 
to melt it; and to prevent it from tang 
burnt it is best to neat a capsule extern 
ing a piece of it first on a water bath until 
thl ca P ke softens and begins to be quid. 
It is then carefully wiped dry and hea ted 
over a naked flame, under constant stir- 
ring up to about 300° F. The edges of 
the g artFcle to be mended should, if possi- 
ble, also be heated to at least gli t., 
so as to permit the cement to be ap- 
plied at leisure and with care. Ine 
thinner the cement is applied the better 
it binds. 

Meerschaum Cements.— I— If the ma- 
terial k genuine (natural) meerschaum 
a lasting joint can be made between the 
parts by proceeding as follows: Clean a 
clove or two of garlic (the fresher the 
better) by removing all the outside hull 
of skin; thn-w into a little mortar and 
mash to a jaste. Rub this paste over 
each surfac.3 to be united and join quick- 
ly. Bring the parts as closely together 
as possible and fasten in this position. 
Have ready some boiling fresh milk; 

Elace the article in it and continue the 
oiling for 30 minutes. Remove and 
let cool slowly. If properly done, this 
makes a joint that will stand any ordi- 
nary treatment, and is nearly invisible. 
For composition, use a cement made of 
quicklime, rubbed to a thick cream with 
egg albumen. 

t II.— Mix very fine meerschaum shav- 
ings with albumen or dissolve casein in 
water glass, stir finely powdered magne- 
sia into the mass, and use the cement 
at once. This hardens quickly. 

Asbestos Cement— Ground asbestos 
may be made into a cement which will 
stand a high degree of heat by simply 
mixing it with a solution of sodium sili- 
cate By subsequent treatment with a 
solution of calcium chloride the mass 
may be made insoluble, silicate of cal- 
cium being formed. 

A cement said to stand a high degree 
of heat and to be suitable for cernentin* 

f^lJl ° rCelai ? l! or other vessel * intended* 
to hold corrosiv fc acids, is this one; 



I.— Asbestos g 

Barium sulphate.... 8 

Sodium silicate g parts 

By mixing these ingredi .its a ceme 
strong enough to resist the stronse 
nitric acid will be obtained. If hot acids 
are dealt with, the following mixture w fli 
be found to possess still more resistan 
powers: 

II. — Sodium silicate g parts 

Fine sand \ part 

Asbestos powder 1 p ar ^ 

Both these cements take a few hours 
to set. If the cement is wanted to set at 
once, use^ potassium silicate instead of 
sodium silicate. This mixture will he 
instantly effective, and possesses the 
same power of resistance as the other. 

Parisian Cement. — Mix 1 part of 
finely ground glass powder, obtained 
by levigation, with 3 parts of finely pow- 
dered zinc oxide rendered perfectly free 
from carbonic acid by calcination. Be- 
sides prepare a solution of 1 part, by 
weight, of borax in a very small quantity 
of hot water and mix this with 50 parts 
of a highly concentrated zinc chloride 
solution of 1.5 to 1.6 specific gravity 
As is well known the mixture of this 
powder with the liquid into a soft uni- 
form paste is accomplished only imme- 
diately before use. The induration to 
a stonelike mass takes place within a 
few minutes, the admix lure of boras 
retarding the solidification somewhat 
The pure white color of the powder may 
be tinted with ocher, manganese, etc., 
according to the shade desired. 

Strong Cement. — Pour over well* 
washed and cleaned casein 12£ parts of 
boiled linseed oil and the same amount 
of castor oil. Boil. Stir actively and 
add a small amount of a saturated aque- 
ous solution of alum; remove from tiw 
fire and set aside. After a while a nnihj 
looking fluid will separate and rise, xaa 
should be poured off. To the residue 
add 120 parts of rock candy syrup anu 
G parts of dextrin. 

A Cheap and Excellent Cement--— A 
cheap and excellent cement, inso i 
after drying in water, P etr °l eu ^ L ' tP hen 
carbon disulphide, etc., very J ard .2La 6 
dry and of very considerable w ^ 
strength, is composed of casei n ,^ 
some tannic-acid compound, as, e j 
stance, calcium tannate, and is pr e F 
as follows; t . reD ared 

First, a tannin solution is P r ^ b y 
either by dissolving a tannin salt. ^ 
extraction from vegetable sour 
barks from certain trees, etc)< * 



is added clear lime -water (obtained by 
filtering milk of lime, or by letting the 
m ilk stand until the lime subsides) until 
no further precipitation occurs, and red 
litmus paper plunged in the fluid is 
turned blue. The liquid is now sepa- 
rated from its precipitate, either by de- 
cantation or otherwise, and the precipi- 
tate is dried. In operating with large 
quantities of the substance, this is done 
by passing a stream of atmospheric 
air through the same. The lime tan- 
nate obtained thus is then mixed with 
casein in proportions running from 1: 1 
up to 1 : 10, and the mixture, thoroughly 
dried, is milled into the consistency of the 
finest powder. This powder has now 
only to be mixed with water to be ready 
for use, the consistency of the prepara- 
tion depending upon the use to which 
it is to be put. 

Universal Cement. — Take gum arabic, 
100 parts, by weight; starch, 75 parts, by 
weight; white sugar, £1 parts, by weight; 
camphor, 4 parts, by weight. Dissolve 
the gum arabic in a little water; also 
dissolve the starch in a little wafer. Mix 
and add the sugar and cam pi. r. Boil 
on the water bath until a paste formed 
which, on coating, will thicken. 

Cement for Ivory.— Melt together 
equal parts of gutta percha and ordinary 
pitch. The pieces to be united have to 
he warmed. 

Cement for Belts.— Mix 50 parts, by 
weight, of fish glue with equal parts of 
whey and acetic acid. Then add 50 
parts, by weight, of garlic in paste form 
and boil the whole on the water bath. 
At the same time make a solution of 
100 parts, by weight, of gelatin in the 
same quantity of whey, and mix both 
liquids. To the whole add, finally, 50 
parts, by weight, of 90-per-cent alcohol 
and, after filtration, a cement is ob- 
tained which can be readily applied with 
a brush and possesses extraordinary 
binding qualities. 

Cement for Chemical Apparatus. — 
Melt together 20 parts of gutta percha, 

shefia? 3 ° f yell ° W Wax ' and 30 parts of 

Size. Over Portland Cement. — The 
best size to use on Portland cement 
molding for wall paper would ordinarily 
°e glue and alum sire put on thin and 
^arm, made in proportion of A pound 
ot glue and same weight of alum dis- 
g th m Separate P aiis » tlien Poured to- 



Aquarium Cements.— 

I- — Lithari e. . « 

T . der - v.-, 1 ounce 

Linseed oil, enough. 
Drier, enough. 

" irs * three ingredients, ad 
sufficient hm eed oil to make a homoeen 
ous paste, ar d then add a small quirtit 
of drier 1 ns gjould stand a few hou 
before it is isr d. It is said that cla 
joined to i.-n with this cement w 



break befor it will come loose' 

II.— Litharge 1 ounce 

rine vhite sand. . . . 1 ounce 
Plast -r of Paris .... 1 ounce 
Man anese borate. 20 grains 
Rosin, in fine pow- 

T . der *\ : SJ pounds 

.Linseed varnish oil, 
enough. 

III. — Take equal parts of flowers 
sulphur, ammonium chloride, and ir 
filings, and mix thoroughly with boil 
linseed oil, finally, add enough whi 
lead to form a thin paste. 

IV. — Powdered graphite. 6 parts 

Slaked lime 3 parts 

Barium sulphate... 8 parts 
Linseed varnish oil. 7 parts 
V. — Simply mix equal parts of whi 
and red lead with a little kettle-boil 
linseed oil. 

Substitute for Cement on Grind 
Bisks. — A good substitute in place . 
glue or various kinds of cement for fas 
ening emery cloth to the disks of grin 
ers of the Gardner type is to heat or war 
the disk and apply a thin coating p 
beeswax; then put the emery cloth l 
place and allow to set and cool unde 
pressure, 

Knockenplombe.— If 1 part of thymo 
be mixed with % parts of iodoform wj 
obtain a substance that retains its fluid- 
ity down to 72° C. .(161.6° P.). » % 
temperature be carried down to ou 
(14.0° F.) it suddenly becomes solid and 
hard. If, in its liquid condition, this 
substance be mixed intimately with an 
equal quantity of calcined bone it forms 
a cement that can be molded or kneaded 
into any shape, that, at the temperatur 
of the body (9B° F.), becomes as hard as 
stone, a fact that suggests many useful 
purposes to which the mixture may be 
put. 

Cement for General Use.— Take gum 
arabic, 100 parts, by weight; starch, 7G 




Cement.— Pour ovei well- 
w.'K and cleaned casei a 18* parts 
of boiled linseed oil and the same amount 
on the fire and Ting 



of boiled 
of castor oi 



i, put •• 

to a boil; stir actively and j dd a s o_. 
amount of a saturated aquetus solution 
of alum; remove from the hre and set 
side. After standing a while a milky 
wi 

nd rise to the top. 

oured off and to the icbjmuc — ~ 

arts of rock-candy syrup and 6 parts oi 
extrine. 

Syndeticon.— L— Slake 100 parts of 
urnt dme with 50 parts of water, pour 
ff the supernatant water; next, dissolve 
0 parts of lump sugar in lb'O parts of 
ater, add to the solution 15 parts of the 
laked lime, heat to 70° or 80° C. (158° to 
76° F.), and set aside shaking fre- 
quently. Finally dissolve 50 to 60 parts 
of genuine Cologne glue in 250 parts of 
he clear solution. 

II. — A solution of 10 parts gum ara- 
ic and 30 parts of sugar in 100 parts of 
oda water glass. 

III. — A hot solution of 50 parts of 
Cologne glue in 60 parts of a 20-pcr-ccnt 
queous calcium-chloride solution. 

IV. — A solution of 50 parts of Co- 
ogne glue in 60 parts of acetic acid. 

V. — Soak isinglass (fish bladder) in 
cctic acid of 70 per cent until it swells up, 

then rub it up, adding a little water dur- 
ng the process. 

"Shio Liao."— Under this name the 
Chinese manufacture an excellent ce- 
ment which takes the place of glue, and 
with which gypsum, marble, porcelain, 
stone, and stoneware can be cemented. 
It consists of the following parts (by 
weight); Slaked powdered lime, 54 
parts; powdered alum, 6 parts; and 
fresh, well - strained blood, 40 parts. 
Inese materials are stirred thoroughly 
until an intimately bound mass of the 
consistency of a more or less stiff salve 
is obtained. In paste form this mass is 
used as cement; in a liquid state it is 
employed for painting aft sorts of arti- 
cles winch are to be rendered waterproof 
and durable. Cardboard covers, which 
are coated with it two or three times be- 



all 



ooking fluid will separate at the bottom 
the top. This should be 
oured off and to the residue add 120 



come as hard as wood. The Chinese tw 
their houses with "shio liao" and el 
their barrels with it, in which thev trnl? 
port oil and other greasy substances 
LUTES. 

Lutes always consist of a menstrua 
and dissolved or suspended solids and 
they must not be attacked by the gasp 
and liquids coming in contact with them 
In some cases the constituents of the lut" 
react to form a more strongly adhering 
mass. *» 

The conditions of application are, in 
brief: 

(a) Heating the composition to raak 
it plastic until firmly fixed in place. 
(6) Heating the surfaces. 

(c) Applying the lute with water or 
volatile solvent, which is allowed to vol 
tilize. 

(d) Moistening the surfaces with w 
ter, oil, etc. (the menstruum of the lu 
itself). 

(e) Applying the lute in workable co 
dition and the setting taking place 
chemical reactions, 

(/) Setting by hydration. 

(g) Setting by oxidation. 

These principles wil ; be found to cov 
nearly all cases. 

Joints should no be ill-fitting, 
pending upon the ute to do what the 
pipes or other parts of the apparatus 
should do. In most cases one part of 
the fil ing should overlap the other, so 
as to nake a small amount of the lute 
effed re and to keep the parts of the ap- 
para as rigid, as a luted joint is not 
supi Dsed to be a particularly strong one, 
but rather one quickly applied, effective 
while in place and easily removed. 

Very moderate amounts of the lute 
should be used, as large amounts are 
likeiy to develop cracks, be rubbed oil, 

A classification may be given as fol- 
lows: 

(1) Plaster of Paris. 

(2) Hydraulic cement. 

(3) Clay. 

(4) Lime. 

(5) Asphalt and pitch. 

(6) Rosin. 

(7) Rubber. 

(8) Linseed oil. 
(0) Casein and albumen. 

(10) Silicates of soda and oxycj 
ride cements. 

(11) Fl our and starch. ~ r 

(12) Miscellaneous, including 
compounds. V1 

I. Plaster of Paris is, of course, 
used alone as a paste, which 4 




ADHESIVES 



soliaiues, for gas and wood distillation 
retorts, etc., and similar places where 
quickness of setting is requisite. It is 
more often, however, used with some 
fibrous material to give it greater strength. 
Asbestos is the most commonly used 
material of these, as it will stand a high 
temperature. When that is not so im- 
portant, straw, plush trimmings, hair, 
etc., are used as binders, while broken 
stone, glass, and various mineral sub- 
stances are used as fillers, but they do 
not add anything to the strength. 
These lutes seem to be particularly suit- 
able for oil vapors and hydrocarbon 
gases. 

Formulas: 

(1) Plaster and water. 

(2) Plaster (wet) and asbestos. 

(3) Plaster (wet) and straw. 

(4) Plaster (wet) and plush trim- 

mings. 

(5) Plaster (wet) and hair. 

(6) Plaster (wet) and broken stone, 

etc. 

II. Hydraulic Cement. — ■ Cement is 
used either alone or with sand, asbestos, 
etc. These lutes are suitable for nitric 
acid. When used with substances such 
as rosin or sulphur, cement is probably 
employed because it is in such a fine 
state of division and used as a filler and 
not because of any powers of setting by 
hydration. 

Formulas: 

(1) Cement — neat. 

(2) Cement and asbestos. 

(3) Cement and sand. 

III. Clay. — This most frequently en- 
ters into the composition of lutes as a 
filler, but even then the very finely divid- 
ed condition of certain grades renders 
it valuable, as it gives body to a liquid, 
such as linseed oil, which, unless stiff- 
ened, would be pervious to a gas, trfe 
clay In all cases being neutral. Thus, 
for luting pipes carrying chlorine, a stiff 
paste of clay and molasses has been sug- 
gested by Thco. ICbller in Die Surrogate, 
but it soon gives way. 

Formulas: 

(1) Clay and linseed oil. 

(2) Same, using fire clay. 

(3) Clay and molasses. 

(1) Is suitable for steam, etc.; (£) for 
chlorine, and (3) for oil vapors. 

IV. Lime is used in the old lute known 
as P^tty, which consists of caustic lime 
a-nd Unseed oil. Frequently the lime is 
replaced by chalk and china clay, but 
t[ie nme should be, in part at least, caus- 
ae, so as to form a certain amount of 
1CDe soap. Lime is also used in silicate 



and casein compositions, which are verv 

Ssewie^e' ^ but ^ * dS£33 
Formulas' 

(1) Lime and boiled oil to stiff mass. 

(2) Clay, etc., boded oil to stiff 

mass. 

V. Asphalt and Pitch. -These sub- 
stances are used m lutes somewhat inter- 
changeably. As a rule, pitch makes the 
stronger lutes. Tar is sometimes used 
but, because of the light oils and fre- 
quently, water contained, it is not so 
good as either of the others. 

Asphalt dissolved in benzol is very 
useful for uniting glass for photographic 
microscopical, and other uses. Also" 
for coating wood, concrete, etc., where 
the melted asphalt would be too thick 
to cover well. Benzol is the cheapest 
solvent that is satisfactory for this pur- 
pose, as the only one that is cheaper 
would be a. petroleum naphtha, which 
does not dissolve all the constituents of 
the asphalt. For waterproofing wood, 
brick, concrete, etc., melted asphalt 
alone is much used, but when a little 
paraffine is added, it improves its water- 
proofing qualities, and in particular cases 
boiled oil is also added to advantage. 

Formulas: 

1. Refined lake asphalt. 

2. Asphalt 4 parts 

Paraffine 1 part 

3. Asphalt 10 parts 

Paraffine 2 parts 

Boiled oil 1 part 

Any of these may be thinned with hot 
benzol or toluol. Toluol is less volatile 
than benzol and about as cheap, if not 
cheaper, the straw-colored grades being 
about 24 cents per gallon. 

Examples of so-called "stone cement" 
are: 

4. Pitch 8 parts 

Rosin C parts 

Wax 1 P art 

Plaster J to A part 

5. Pitch 8 P arts 

Rosin I P ar J s 

Sulphur J P^J 8 

Stone powder 1 P art , 

These compositions are used to unit* 
slate slabs and stoneware for domestic, 
engineering, and chemical purposes. Va 
rious rosin and pitch mixtures are used 
for these purposes, and the proportions 
of these two ingredients arc determined 
by the consistency desired. Sulphurand 
stone powder are added to prevent the 
formation of cracks, sulphur acting chem- 
ically and stone powder mechanically. 



Where the lute would come m contact 
Ith acid or vapors of the same, lime- 
stone should not be the powder used, 
otherwise it is about the best. Wax is a 
useful ingredient to keep the composi- 
tion from getting brittle with age. 

A class of lutes under this general 
grouping that are much used are so- 
falleS '^marine glu.es"> v.). They 
must be tough and elastic. When used 
for calking on a vessel they must expand 
and contract with the temperature and 
not crack or come loose. 
Formulas : 

6. Pitch 8 Parts 

Shellac 2 parts 

Pure crude rubber ... 1 part 

7. Pitch 1 part 

Shellac 1 part 

Rubber substitute 1 part 

These are used by melting over a 
burner. 

VI. Rosin, Shellac, and Wax. — A 
strong cement, used as a stone cement, 
is: 

1. Rosin 8 parts 

Wax 1 part 

Turpentine 1 part 

It has iittle or no body, and is used in 
~n layers. 

For nitric and hydrochloric acid 
pors: 

2. Rosin 1 part 

Sulphur 1 part 

Fire clay % parts 

Sulphur gives great hardness and 
permanency to rosin lutes, but this com- 
position is somewhat brittle. 

Good waterproof lutes of this class 
are: 

3 - Rosin 1 part 

Wax > • - ■ ■ 1 part 

Powdered stone 2 parts 

4 - Shellac 5 parts 

r£ ax - • - : 1 part 

lurpentine l par t 

Chalk, etc 8 to 10 parts 

For a soft air-tight paste for ground- 
lass surfaces: 

5 - ^ ax l. Ipart 

Vaseline i part 

6. A strong cement, without body, 
or metals (other than copper or alloys 

sSnfl^^ finel y P^dered shellac 

5Sn T? 10 - parts of ammonia water 
until solution is effected. 

innuences, rubber is a very useful con- 



stituent in lutes, but its price mako* > 
use very limited. es 1 

Leather Cement. 

1- Asphalt ! 

gosin ... x 

Guttapercha ........ 4 parta 

Carbon disulphide. . , go parts 

To stand acid vapors: 

% Rubber. 1 part 

Linseed oil 3 partg 

Fire cla y 3 p ar t s 

3. Plain Rubber Cement. — Cut \h 
crude rubber in small pieces and the 
add the solvent. Carbon disulphide is 
the best, benzol good and much cheaper 
but gasoline is probably most extensively 
used because of its cheapness. 

4. To make corks and wood ira- 
pervious to steam and water, soak them 
in a rubber solution as above; if it i g 
desired to protect them from oil vapors, 
use glue composition. (See Section IX.) 

VIII. Linseed Oil.— This Is one of the 
most generally useful substances we have 
for luting purposes, if absorbed by a por- 
ous substance that is inert. 

Formulas: 1. China clay of general 
utility for aqueous vapors. 

Linseed oil of general utility for aque- 
ous vapors. 

2. Lime forming the well -known 

p utt y- 

Linseed oil forming the well-known 
putty. 

3. Red or white lead and linseed oil. 
These mixtures become very strong 

when set and are best diluted with pow- 
dered glass, clay, or graphite. There 
are almost an endless number of lutes 
using metallic oxides and linseed oil. A 
very good one, not getting as hard as 
those containing lead, is: 
# 4. Oxide of iron and Jinseed oil. 

IX. Casein, Albumen, and Glue. — 
These, if properly made, become very 
tough and tenacious; they stand moder- 
ate heat and oil vapors, but not acid 
vapors. 

1, Finely powdered case- 

in 1£ parts 

Slaked lime (fresh).. . 50 parts 

Fine sand 50 parts 

Water to thick mush. 
A very strong cement which stands 
moderate heat is the following : 

2. Casein in Yery fine 

powder 1 P ar * 

Rubbed up with sili- 
cate of so da 3 parts 

A strong lute for general purposes, 



which must be used promptly when 
jnade: 

3, While of egg made into a paste 
with slaked lime. 

A composition for soaking corks, 
Wood, packing, etc., to render them im- 
pervious to oil vapors, is : 

Gelatine or good glue 2 parts 

Glycerine i to 1 part 

Water 6 parts 

Oil of wintergreen, 
etc., to keep from 
spoiling. 

X. Silicate of Oxychloride Cements. — 
for oil vapors, standing the highest heat: 

1. A stiff paste of silicate of soda and 
asbestos. 

Gaskets for superheated steam, re- 
torts, furnaces, etc.: 

2. Silicate of soda and powdered glass; 
dry the mixture and heat. 

Not so strong, however, as the follow- 
ing: 

3. Silicate of soda 50 parts 

Asbestos . . 15 parts 

Slaked lime 10 parts 

Metal Cement: 

4. Silicate of soda 1 part 

Oxides of metal, such 

as zinc oxide; lith- 
arge, iron oxide, 
singly or mixed 

Very hard and extra strong composi 
tions : 

5. Zinc oxide 

Zinc chloride 

Water to make a paste 

6. Magnesium oxide . . . 
Magnesium chloride. 
Water to make a paste 

XL Flour and Starch Compositions. — 
1- The well-known flaxseed poultice 

sets very tough, but does not stand water 

or condensed steam. 

s 2 " Flour an( i molasses, made by mak- 
ing a stiff composition of the two. 
1 his is an excellent lute to have at hand 
at all times for emergency use, etc. 

3. Stiff paste of flour and strong zinc- 
cwonde solution forms a more imper- 
ious lute, and is more permanent as 
a cement. This is good for most pur- 
poses at ordinary temperature, where it 
would not be in contact with nitric-acid 
vapors or condensing steam. 

*• A mixture of dextrine and fine sand 
makes a good composition, mainly used 
as core compound. 

XII. Miscellaneous. — > 
1. Litharge. 
Glycerine. 



1 part 



2 parts 

1 part 

2 parts 
1 part 



Mixed to form a. o+iff ,™„4 
becomes very hard and 2™ ' 8 J*? an 

For a high heat: 
2. Alumina n 

Sand.... 1 part 

Slaked lime'..' ? pa ^ 

Borax \P ar t 

Water sufficient. * Part 
A class of mixtures that can be class* 

fied only according to their intended use 

are core compounds. 

L— Dextrine, about i part 

band, about lo parts 

W r ith enough water to form a paste 

II. —Powdered anthracite coal, with 
molasses to form a stiff paste. 

III. — Rosin, partly saponi- 

fied by soda lye .... ] part 

Flour. % parts 

Sand (with sufficient 

water) 4. parts 

(These proportions are approximat 
and the amount of sand can be increase 
for some purposes.) 

IV. — Glue, powdered 1 part 

Flour. . . . 4 parts 

Sand (with sufficient 

water) 6 parts 

For some purposes the following mix 
ture is used. It does not seem to be 
gasket or a core compound: 
V. — Oats (or wheat) ground 25 parts 

Glue, powdered 6 parts 

Sal ammoniac 1 part 

Paper read by Samuel S. Sadder befor 
the Franklin Institttte. 

PASTES : 

Dextrine Pastes. — 

I. — Borax, powdered.. . . 60 parts 
Dextrine, light yellow. 480 parts 

Glucose 50 parts 

Water 420 parts 

By the aid of heat, dissolve the bora 
in the water and add the dextrine an 
glucose. Continue the heat, but do no 
let the mixture boil, and stir constantl 
until a homogeneous solution is obtainev 
from time to time renewing the water 
lost by evaporation with hot water. 
Finally, bring up to full weight (1,000 
parts) by the addition of hot water, then 
strain through flannel. Prepared I in this 
manner the paste remains bright and 
Hear for a long time. It has extrao^ 
dinary adhesiveVoperti^f »J ^ZlE 
rapidly If care is not taken to keep the 
off temperature below the bailing 
point o? water, the paste is apt to become 
frown and to be very brittle on drying. 




ADHESIVES 



n -Dissolve in hot water a sufficient 

A i frCe y to TjSf tr°J x : 

consistency of ^"jy. kee p a 



&HOW Z ;" e nared "for extempore labels 

to glass. This paste is very useful m tne 

°1fl?LKr^i.000 parts of dextrine 
450 parte of soft water and stn ' theimx- 
ture for 10 minutes. After the dextrine 
has absorbed the water, put the mixture 
over the fire, or, preferably, on a water 
bath, and heat, with lively stirring or 
5 minutes, or until it forms a light mi k- 
Hke liquid, on the surface of which lit- 
tle babbles begin to form and the liquid 
is apparently beginning to boil. Vo 
not allow it to come to a boil. Ke- 
move from the fire and set m a bucket 
of cold water to cool off. When cold 
add to every 1,000 parts of the solution 
51 parts glycerine and as much salicylic 
acid as will stand on the tip of a knife 
blade. If the solution is too thick, thin 
it with water that has been boiled and 
cooled off again. Do not add any more 
glycerine or the solution will never set. 

IV. — Soften 175 parts of thick dex- 
trine with cold water and 250 parts of 
boiling water added. Boil for 5 minutes 
and then add 30 parts of dilute acetic 
acid, 30 parts glycerine, and a drop or 
two of clove oil. 

V. — Powder coarsely 400 parts dex- 
trine and dissolve in 600 parts of water. 
Add 20 parts glycerine and 10 parts glu- 
cose and heat to 90° C. (195° F.). 

VI. —Stir 400 parts of dextrine with 
water and thin the mass with 200 parts 
more water, 20 parts glucose, and 10 
parts aluminum sulphate. Heat the 
whole to 90° C. (195° F.) in the water 
bath until the whole mass becomes clear 
and liquid. 

VII. — Warm 2 parts of dextrine, 5 
parts of water, 1 part of acetic acid, 1 
part of alcohol together, with occasional 
stirring until a complete solution is at- 
tained. 

VIII —Dissolve by the aid of heat 100 
parts ot builders 5 glue in 200 parts of 
water add 2 parb of bleached shellac 
dissolved previously in 50 parts of alcohol. 
Dissolve by the aid of heat 50 parts of dex- 
trine in 50 parts of water, and mix the two 

■mil hoi 7 s i lrn - ng , Uie second slo ^y 

J ,3 Str . a,n the fixture through 

J doth into a shallow dish and let it 
harden. When needed cut off a piece of 



Sowed to evaporate. Sheets of paper 
allowed to P d extcmpore f a 

by coating 



sufficient size and warm until it becom* 
liquid and if necessary or advisable thi* 
with water. a 

IS. — Stir up 10 parts of dextrine with 
sufficient water to make a thick broth 
Then, over a light fire, heat and add 9<5 
parts, of sodium water glass. 

X. — Dissolve 5 parts of dextrin 
water and add 1 part of alum. 

Fastening Cork to Metal.— I n iasten , 
ing cork to iron and brass, even when 
these are lacquered, a good sealing wax 
containing shellac will be found to serve 
the purpose nicely. Wax prepared with 
rosin is not suitable. The cork surface 
is painted with the melted sealing was. 
The surface of the metal is heated with 
a spirit flame entirely free from soot, 
until the sealing wax melts when pressed 
upon the metallic surface. The wax : 
held in the flame until it burns, and it 
then applied to the hot surface of the 
metal. The cork surface painted wit! 
sealing wax is now held in the flame, anc 
as soon as the wax begins to melt the 
cork is pressed firmly on the metallic sur- 
face bearing the wax, 

To Paste Celluloid on Wood, Tin, or 
Leather. — To attach celluloid to wood, 
tin, or leather, a mixture of 1 part of 
shellac, 1 part of spirit of camphor, 3 to 
4 parts of alcohol and spirit of camphor (W) 
is well adapted, in which 1 part of cam- 
phor is dissolved without heating in 7 
parts of spirit of wine of 0.8S2 specific 
gravity, adding 2 parts of water. 

To Paste Paper Signs on Metal or 
Cloth. — A piece of gutta percha of tj- 
same size as the label is laid under tt 
latter and the whole is heated. If tt 
heating cannot be accomplished by me 
of a spirit lamp the label should be none 
down under a protective cloth or pape 
in the same manner as woolen goods a 
pressed. This method is also very use 
ful for attaching paper labels to minerals 

Paste for Fastening Leather, Oucloth, 
or Similar Stuff to Table or Desk Tops, 
etc.— Use the same paste for [ f™^ sten 



ere. — use tne same pusun w . . B 
for oilcloth or other goods, but ra^ 
the leather before applying the ,S 
Prepare the paste as follows: i - g 
pounds of good wheat flour i ■ 
tablespoonfuls of pulverized ^\ h \ c - 
bic or powdered rosin ^^.^ a c le&p 
spoon* 

dish viuu ^^"h-- 
formly thick batter; set it over ^ 
fire and stir continuously until i ^. ]ieP 
is uniform and free from lump 9- the 
the mass has become so s .J,°"' c 
wooden spoon or s 



ofuls of pulverized alum in » ^ 
with water enough to maK ^ 



ne so si""* , ; n 
tick will stand * 



ADHESIVES 



upright, it is taken from the fire and 
placed in another dish and covered so 
that no skin will form on top. When 
cold, the table or desk top, etc., is 
covered with a thin coat of the paste, the 
cloth, etc., carefully laid on and smoothed 
from the center toward the edges with 
a roiling pin. The trimming of edges is 
accomplished when the paste has dried. 
To smooth out the leather after pasting, a 
woolen cloth is of the best service. 

To Paste Paper on Smooth Iron, — ■ 

Over a water bath dissolve 200 parts, by 
weight, of gelatine in 150 parts, by weight, 
of water; while stirring add 50 parts, by 
weight, of acetic acid, 50 parts alco- 
hol, and 50 parts, by weight, of pulver- 
ized alum. The spot upon which it is 
desired to attach the paper must first 
be rubbed with a bit of fine emery paper. 

Paste for Affixing Cloth to Metal. — 

Starch 20 parts 

Sugar. . . v 10 parts 

Zinc chloride. 1 part 

Water 100 parts 

Mix the ingredients and stir until a 
perfectly smooth liquid results entirely 
free from lumps, then warm gradually 
until the liquid thickens. 

To Fix Paper upon Polished Metal. — 

Dissolve 400 parts, by weight, of dextrine 
in 600 parts, by weight, of water; add 
to this 10 parts, by weight, of glucose, 
and heat almost to boiling. 

_ Albumen Paste.— Fresh egg albumen 
is recommended as a paste for affixing 
labels on bottles. It is said that labels 
put on with this substance, and well 
dried at the time, will not loosen even 
when bottles are put into water and left 
there for some time. Albumen, dry, is 
almost proof against mold or ferments. 
as to cost, it is but little if any higher 
tnan gum arable, the white of one egg 
being sufficient to attach at least 100 
medium-sized labels. 

Paste for Parchment Paper.— The best 
a S f ent 15 , ma< i e l>y dissolving casein in a 
saturated aqueous solution of borax. 

Medical Paste.— As an adhesive agent 
ror medicinal purposes Professor Reihl, 
j« i-eipsic, recommends the viscous sub- 
«ance contained in the white mistletoe. 
*L\ , ge y P res ent in the berries and 
™<5 bark of the plant; it is called viscin, 
oa can be produced at one-tenth the 
l "ce ot caoutchouc. Solutions in b en- 
gine may be used like those of caout- 
iiouc without causing any irritation if 
?Pp ied mixed with medicinal remedies 
l ° the skin. 



Paste That Will Rot MiYM %r 
white flour with cold ^^fct??ft <^0 2 
paste. Be sure to stir out II A- I 1Ck 
then add boiling w^" & r ^ ^{ft 
time until thoroughly cooked <iv I 
quarts of this add** pound light brown 
sugar and £ ounce corrosive l.Kli^ T 
dissolved in a little hot water? W eTtfi 
paste is cool add 1 drachm oil of lavendef 
This paste will keep for a long time? 

Mp^f tiQ f ^ ? + °i d and Cardboard on 
Metal -In a little water dissolve 50 parte 
of lead acetate and 5 parts of alum In 
another receptacle dissolve 75 parts of 
ff urn arable in 2 000 parts of water. 
Into this gum-arabic solution pour 500 
parts of flour, stirring constantly, and 
heat gradually to the boiling point 
Mingle the solution first prepared with 
the second solution. It should be kept 
m mind that, owing to the lead acetate, 
this preparation is poisonous. 

Agar Agar Paste.— The agar agar is 
broken up small, wetted with water, and 
exposed in an earthenware vessel to the ac- 
tion of ozone pumped under pressure into 
the vessel f rom the ozonizing apparatus. 
About an hour of this bleaches the agar 
agar and makes it freely soluble in boil- 
ing water, w r hen solutions far more con- 
centrated than has hitherto been possible 
can be prepared. On cooling, the solu- 
tions assume a milky appearance, but 
form no lumps and are readily relique- 
fied by heating. If the solution is com- 
pletely evaporated, as of course happens 
when the adhesive is allowed to dry after 
use, it leaves a firmly holding mass which 
is insoluble in cold water. Among the 
uses to which the preparation can be 
applied are the dressing of textile fabrics 
and paper sizing, and the production of 
photographic papers, as well as the or- 
dinary uses of an adhesive. 

Strongly Adhesive Paste.— Pour parts 
glue arc soaked a few hours in 15 P ar .^ 
cold water, and moderately heated tifl 
the solution becomes perfectly clear, 
when 65 parts boiling water are added, 
while stirring. In another vessel 30 
parts boiled starch are previously stirred 
together with 20 parts cold water, s« 
that a thin, milky liquid without lump* 
results. The boiling glue solution ia 
poured into this while stirring constantly, 
and the whole is kept boiling another 10 
minutes. 

Paste for Tissue Paper.— 

(a) Pulverized gum ara- 

v ' bj c 2 ounces 

White sugar 4 drachms 

Boiling water 3 fhudouncea 



parts 
parts 



part 
parts 



38 

-0 Common laundry 

M^S^andiSp^awide- 
outhed bottle. 

Waterproof and Acidproof Pastes.— 
I.-Chromic acid.. ...... f PjJ 

Stronger ammonia- . • IS P^J 3 

Sulphuric acid 4 pan 

Cuprammonium so- 
lution 3 J 

Fine white paper .... * 
. — Isinglass, a sufficient 
quantity 

Acetic acid I 

"Water " 

Dissolve sufficient isinglass in the mix 
rc of acetic acid and water to make a 
bin mucilage. , , 

One of the solutions is applied to the 
surf ace of one sheet of paper and the other 
to the other sheet, and they are then 
pressed together. ■ 

III.— A fair knotting varnish free 
from surplus oil is by far the best adhe- 
sive for fixing labels, especially on metal 
surfaces. It dries instantly, insuring 
* speedy job and immediate packing, if 
needful, without fear of derangement. 
It has great tenacity, and is not only 
absolutely damp-proof itself, but is actu- 
ally repellent of moisture, to which all 
water pastes are subject. It costs more, 
but the additional expense is often infini- 
tesimal compared with the pleasure of a 
satisfactory result. 

Balkan Paste.— 

Pale glue 4 ounces 

White loaf sugar. . 2 ounces 
Powdered starch. .. . 1 ounce 

White dextrine J pound 

Pure glycerine 3 ounces 

Carbolic acid. ...... \ ounce 

Boiling water 32 ounces 

Cut up the glue and steep it in \ pint 
Doihng water; when softened melt m a 
saucepan; add sugar, starch, and dex- 
trine and lastly the glycerine, in which 
carbolic acid has been mixed; add re- 
mainder of water, and boil until it thick- 
ens. Pour into jars or bottles. 

Permanent Paste.— 

I.— Wheat flour 1 pound 

Water, cold 1 quaTt 

Nitric acid.. 4ftmdraclrms 

J*?, r] <i a ?Hi 40 grains 

Oil of cloves 20 minims 

Mis the flour, boric acid, and water 
then strain the mixture; add tbe nitric 



m 4 

as 



acid, apply, heat with constant stirring 
until the mixture thickens; when n^rf 
cold add the oil of cloves. This rZl 
will have a pleasant smell, will notattra 
flies, and can be thinned by the addition 
of cold water as needed. 

II. — Dissolve 4 ounces alum 
quarts hot water. When cool add 
much flour as will make it of the u 3U a 
consistency; then stir into it \ 0Uac 
powdered rosin; next add a little wate 
m which a dozen cloves have bee 
steeped; then boil it until thick as 
stirring from the bottom all the time' 
Thin with warm water for use. 

Preservatives for Paste. — Various a 
tiseptics are employed for the preserv 
tion of flour paste, mucilage, etc. Bo 
and salicylic acids, oil of cloves, oil 
sassafras, and solution of formaldehy 
arc among those which have given be 
service. A durable starch paste is pr 
duced by adding some borax to t" 
water used in making it. A paste fro 
10 parts (weight) starch to 100 pa 
(weight) water with 1 per cent bor 
added will keep many weeks, while wi 
out this addition it will sour after 
days. In the case of a gluing mateii 
prepared from starch paste and joiner 
glue, borax has also demonstrated its pi 
serving qualities. The solution is ma 
by mixing 10 parts (weight) starch in 
a paste with water and adding 10 pa 
(weight) glue soaked in water to the 
solution; the addition of -,V part (weigh 
of borax to the solution will cause it 
keep for weeks. It is equal to theb 
glue, but should be warmed and stirr 
before use. 

Board-Sizing.— A cheap sizing 
rough, weather-beaten boards may 
made by dissolving shellac in sal so 
and adding some heavy-bodied pigm e . 
This size will stick to grease spots, 
seed oil may be added if desired. U** 
water and linseed oil make a good heavy 
sizing, but hard to spread. Ij^L^ 
usually used half and half, though these 
proportions may be varied soiuew.ua 

Rice Paste.— Mix the rice fl 0 "*^ 
cold water, and boil it over a g e . ntl ^ llite 
until it thickens. This paste is 1 - 
white and becomes transparent °' se 
ing. It is very adherent and ot g T 
for many purposes. 

Casein Paste. — A solution 01 V^er- 
prepared from a bark or from 
cial tannin, is precipitated wl " ^ tbe 
water, the lime being^ added " _ b i u e. 
solution just turns red litmus paj ' te( j. 
The supernatant liquid is then deca« 



ABHESIVES 



89 



and the precipitate is dried without arti- 
ficial heat. The resulting calcium tan- 
nate is then mixed, according to the pur- 
pose for which the adhesive is intended, 
with from 1 to 10 times its weight of dry 
casein by grinding in a mill. The ad- 
hesive compound is soluble in water, 

fietroleum, oils, and carbon bisulphide, 
t is very strong, and is applied in the 
form of a paste with water. 

PASTES FOR PAPERH AUGERS. 

J,— Use a cheap grade of rye or wheat 
flour, mix thoroughly with cold water to 
about the consistency of dough, or a little 
thinner, being careful to remove all 
lumps; stir in a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered alum to a quart of flour, then pour 
in boiling water, stirring rapidly until the 
flour is thoroughly cooked. Let this cool 
before using, and thin with cold water. 

II. — Venetian Paste. — 

(a) 4 ounces white or fish glue 
8 fluidounces cold water 

(b) 2 fluidounces Venice turpentine 

(c) 1 pound rye flour 

16 fluidounces (1 pint) cold water 

(d) 64 fluidounces (| gallon) boiling 

water 

Soak the 4 ounces of glue in the cold 
water for 4 hours; dissolve on a water 
bath (glue pot), and while hot stir in the 
Venice turpentine. Make up (e) into a 
batter free from lumps and pour into (d). 
Stir briskly, and finally add the glue so- 
lution. This makes a very strong paste, 
and it will adhere to a painted surface, 
owing to the Venice turpentine in its 
composition. 

III. — Strong Adhesive Paste 

(a) 4 pounds rye flour 

3 gallon cold water 

(b) l| gallons boiling water 

(c) 2 ounces pulverized rosin 

Make (a) into a bai ter free from lumps; 
then pour into (h). Boil if necessary, and 
Trhile hot stir in the pulverized rosin a 
little at a time. This paste is exceed- 
ingly strong, and will stick heavy wall 
paper or thin leather. If the paste be 
too thick, thin with a little hot water; 
never thin paste with cold water. 

IV. — Flour Paste 

(a) 2 pounds wheat flour 
, 32 fluidounces (1 quart) cold water 
(o) 1 ounce alum 

4 fluidounces hot water 
(0 96 fluidounces gallon) boiling 
water 

Work the wheat flour into a batter free 
Irc-m lumps with the cold water. Dis- 
solve the alum as designated in (6). 



Now stir in (a) and (c) and, if necessarv 
contmue boiling until 'the past^tSK 
into a sem.transparent mucilage S 



boilin 



g until the paste thicket 
nsparent mucilage, aftc 
which stir in solution ({,). The abi™ 
makes a very fine paste for wall paper 

V. — Elastic or Pliable Paste 

(a) 4 ounces common starch 
3 ounces white dextrine 

10 fluidounces cold water 

(b) 1 ounce borax 
3 fluidounces glycerine 

64 fluidounces gallon) 
water 

Beat to a batter the ingredients of (a) 
Dissolve the borax in the boiling water- 
then add the glycerine, after which po 
(a) into solution (6) . Stir until it becom 
translucent. This paste will not crack 
and, being very pliable, is used for pape 
cloth, leather, and other material wher 
flexibility is required. 

VI. — A paste with which wall pape 
can be attached to wood or masonr 
adhering to it firmly in spite of dam 
ness, is prepared, as usual, of rye flour, 
which, however, are added, after the bo" 
ing, 8^ parts, by weight, of good linsee 
oil varnish and 8£ parts, by weight, 
turpentine to every 500 parts, by weigh 

VII— Paste for Wall Paper.— Soak 1 
pounds of bolus (bole) in water, after 
has been beaten into small fragment 
and pour off the supernatant wate 
Boil 10 ounces of glue into glue wate 
mix it well with the softened bolus an 
2 pounds plaster of Paris and strai 
through a sieve by means of a brus 
Thin the mass with water to the consis 
ency of a thin paste. The paste is no 
ready for use. It is not only inuc 
cheaper than other varieties, but has th 
advantage over them of adhering bette 
to whitewashed walls, and especially 
such as have been repeatedly coated ove 
the old coatings which were not thor 
oughly removed. For hanging fine wa 
paper this paste is less commendabJ; 
as it forms a white color, with whic 
the paper might easily become soiled 
great care is not exercised in applyin 
it. If the fine wall paper is mounted o 
ground paper, however, it can he recom 
mended for pasting the ground paper o 
the wall. 

LABEL PASTES : 

Pastes to Affix Labels to Tin. -Label 
separate from tin because the paste be 
cSftoodry- Some moisture > * ^ 

£3? of tin San where the conta.ner is o 



40 



ADHESIVES 



ounce 
ounces 
14 grains 
4 ounces 

2 pints 



dass. Paste may be kept moist by the 
Edition of calcium chloride, which is 
strongly hygroscopic, or of glycerine. 

The following formulas for pastes of 
the type indicated were proposed by l^eo 
Eliel: 

I. — Tragacanth I 

Acacia * 

Thymol 

Glycerine 

Water, sufficient to 

make 

Dissolve the gums in 1 pint of water, 
strain, and add the glycerine, in which 
the thymol is suspended; shake well and 
add sufficient water to make 2 pints. 
This separates on standing, but a single 
shake mixes it sufficiently for use. 

II.— Rye flour 8 ounces 

Powdered acacia 1 ounce 

Glycerine 2 ounces 

Oil of cloves 40 drops 

Rub the rye flour and acacia to a 
smooth paste with 8 ounces of cold water; 
strain through cheese cloth, and pour 
into 1 pint of boiling water, and continue 
the heat until as thick as desired. When 
nearly cold add the glycerine and oil of 
cloves. 

III. — Rye flour 5 parts 

Venice turpentine ... 1 part 
Liquid glue, a sufficient quantity 
Rub up the flour with the turpentine 
and then add sufficient freshly prepared 
glue (glue or gelatine dissolved in water) 
to make a stiff paste. This paste dries 
slowly. 

I V. — Dextrine 2 parts 

Acetic acid 1 part 

Water 5 parts 

Alcohol, 95 per cent . 1 part 
; Dissolve the dextrine and acetic acid 
in water by heating together in the water 
bath, and to the solution add the alcohol. 

V.— Dextrine 3 pounds 

£? rax 2 ounces 

fe Iu . cose 5 drachms 

"&ter 3 pints 2 ounces 

Dissolve the borax In the water bv 
warming then add the dextrine and «lu- 

Slve^ C ° ntinUe t0 W Sentl ? until 

a chian h r wf- bty 15 - m ^ e b * ^solving 
W^fy. m hmewater ' but it 

nasti"~~^ d tartari P acid to thick flour 
Suite'thi \ ° V T l ? 18 to be boile d until 
solved b a' lHtl V^\o» S \y dis- 

tortion vJS httle u wa ter, is added, the pro- 

S Tpas? e g ab ° Ut 2 ° unces to the P^t 



VII.— Gum arable, 60 parts; e \ Vf . a 
ine, 10 parts; water, 30 parts; lin Anu-" 
chlorat., 2 parts. * uq> btlb n 

VIII-— Boil rye flour and strong B l,; 
water into a mass to which are added f 
1,000 parts, good linseed-oil varnish of 
parts and oil of turpentine 30 rjarf 
This mixture furnishes a gluing ager* 
which, it is claimed, even renders tl 
labels proof against being loosened 1 
moisture. 

IX. - Pour 140 parts of distilled G0 V 
water over 100 parts of gum arabic in 
wide-necked bottle and dissolve by f re . 
quent shaking. To the solution, whiefc 
is ready after standing for about 3 days 
add 10 parts of glycerine; later, 20 parts, 
diluted acetic acid, and finally Q parts 
aluminum sulphate, then straining 
through a fine-hair sieve. 

X. — Good glue is said to be obtaine 
by dissolving 1 part of powdered suga 
in 4 parts of soda water glass. 

XI. — A glue for bottle labels is pre 
pared by dissolving borax in water 
soak glue in this solution and dissoh 
the glue by boiling. Carefully drop 
much acetic acid into the solution 
will allow it to remain thin on cooling 
Labels affixed with this agcnt < adhere 
firmly and do not become moldy in damp 
cellars. 

XII. — Dissolve some isinglass in acetic 
acid and brush the labels over with it. 
There will be no cause to complain 
of their coming off, nor of striking 
through the paper. Take a wide- 
mouthed bottle, fill about two-thirds with 
commercial acetic acid, and put in as much 
isinglass as the liquid will hold, and set 
aside in a warm place until completely 
dissolved. When cold it should form a 
jelly. To use it place the bottle in hot 
water. The cork should be well-fit- 
ting and smeared with vaseline or melted 
paraffine. 

How to Paste Labels on Tin.— Brush 
over the entire back of the label Y llt V* 
flour paste, fold the label loosely by 
sticking both ends together without 
creasing the center, and throw to one 
side until this process has been gone 
through with the whole lot. Then unto m 
each label and place it on the can m tn 
regular manner. The paste o«g^L n " 
to be thicker than maple syrup, wn 
of this consistency it soaks througn 



label and makes it pliable and in a Co 
r — sitioiJ. 

ickiy. 

1 suf- 

labels 1 > be ?° 



dition to be easily rubbed into P°J ck jy t 



If the paste is too thick it dries qi»c* - f _ 
and does not soak through the label 
ficiently. After the labels have oe 
placed upon the cans the latter musi 



ADHESIVES 



kept apart until dry. In putting the 
naste upon the labels in the first place, 
follow the method of placing the dry 
labels over one another, back sides up, 
with the edge of each just protruding over 
the edge oi the one beneath it, so that 
the fingers may easily grasp the label 
after the pasting has been done. 

Druggists' Label Paste. — This paste, 
when carefully made, is an admirable one 
for label use, and a very little will go a 
long way: 

Wheat flour '. . 4 ounces 

Nitric acid 1 drachm 

Boric acid 10 grains 

Oil of cicves 5 drops 

Carbolic void £ drachm 

Stir flour and water together, mixing 
thoroughly, and add the other ingre- 
dients. After the stuff is well mixed, 
beat it, watching very carefully and re- 
moving the instant it stiffens. 

To Attach Glass Labels to Bottles. — 
Melt together 1 part of rosin and 2 parts 
of yellow wax, and use while warm. 

Photographic Motmtants (see also 
Photography). — Owing to the nature of 
the different papers used for printing 
photographs, it is a matter of extreme 
importance to use a mountant that shall 
not set up decomposition in the coating 
of the print. For example, a mountant 
that exhibits acidity or alkalinity is in- 
jurious with most varieties of paper; and 
in photography the following formulas 
for pastes, mucilages, etc., have there- 
fore been selected with regard to their 
absolute immunity from setting up de- 
composition in the print or changing its 
tone in any way. One of the usual 
mountants is rice starch or else rice water. 
The latter is boiled to a thick jelly, 
strained, and the strained mass used 
as an agglutinant for attaching photo- 
graphic prints to the mounts. There is 
nothing of an injurious nature whatever 
in this mountant, neither is there in a 
mucilage made with gum dragon. 

This gum (also called gum traga- 
canth) is usually in the form of curls 
0-e., leaf gum), which take a long time 
to properly dissolve in water — several 
weeks in fact— but during the past few 
years there has been put on the market a 
Powdered gum dragon which does not 
occupy so many days in dissolving. To 
make a mucilage rom gum dragon a 
very large volume of water is required. 
*or example, 1 ounce of the gum, either 
le af or powder, will swell up and con- 
Vert l gallon of water into a thiekish 
mucilage in the course of 2 or 3 weeks. 



Only cold water must be used, and b 
ore using the mucilage, all whitis 
lumps (which are particles of undissolve 
gum) should be picked out or else Tf 
mucilage strained. The time of sclutid 
can be considerably shortened (to a fe 
hours) by acidifying the water in whic 
the gum is placed with a little sulphuri 
or oxalic acid; but as the resultant muci 
lage would contain traces of their pre 
ence, such acids are not permissibl 
when the gum-dragon mucilage is to b 
used for mounting photographs. 

Glycerine and gum arabic make a ve 
good adhesive of a fluid nature suite 
to mounting photographs; and althoug 
glycerine is hygroscopic by itself, su 
tendency to absorb moisture is ehecke 
by the reverse nature of the gum arabi 
consequently an ideal fluid mucilage 
produced. _ The proportions of the se 
era! ingredients are these: 

Gum arabic, genuine 
(gum acacia, not 

Bassora gum) 4 ounces 

Boiling water 12 ounces 

Glycerine, pure 1 ounce 

First dissolve the gum in the wate 
and then stir in the glycerine, and all 
all debris from the gum to deposit befo 
using. The following adhesive co 
pound is also one that is free from che 
ical reactions, and is suited for phot 
graphic purposes: 

Water 2 pints 

Gum dragon, pow- 
dered 1 ounce 

Gum arabic, genuine 4 ounees 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Mix the gum arable with half the w 
ter, and in the remainder of the wat 
dissolve the gum dragon. When bo 
solids are dissolved, mix them togethe 
and then stir in the glycerine. 

The following paste will be found 
useful mountant: 

Gum arabic, genuine 1 ounce 

Bice starch 1 ounce 

White sugar 4 ounces 

Water, q. s. 
Dissolve the gum > just f^™ 5 " 1 
water to completely dissolve it, then ad 
the sugar, anS when that has completd 
dissolved stir in the * P"^' .fi 

then boil the mixture until the starch i 

^rveV'rong; stiff paste for fasten* 
cardboard mounts to *»™»,»^K 
other materials is prepared by ma kin 
a bowl of starch paste in the usual 
and then adding 1 ou . nM n ^ 
pentine per pound of paste, and boil 



ADHESIVES 



s tin-: i iff the mixture until the 
SrfrpShi become well mcor- 
DoSted Venice turpentine stirred into 
Lur paste and boiled" wi 1 also be found 
adhesive cement for fastening 
trawboard, leatherette, and 
skiver leather to wood or metal; but 
owing to the resinous nature of the Venice 
?urpe g ntine, such pastes are ^not suitable 
for mounting photographic prints. ine 
half-dozen compounds are 
to use with silver 



a very 
cardboard, 



fallowing 

suitable mountants 

PrJnt Aleohol, absolute. ... 10 ounces 

Gelatine, good 1 ounce 

Glycerine i to 1 ounce 

Soak the gelatine in water for an hour 
or two until it is completely softened; 
take the gelatine out of the water, and 
allow it to drain, and put it into ft 
bottle and pour alcohol over it; add the 
glycerine (if the gelatine is soft use 
only £ ounce; if the gelatine is hard, use 
1 ounce of the glycerine), then melt the 
gelatine by standing the bottle in a vessel 
of hot water, and shake up very well. 
For use, remelt by heat. The alcohol 
prevents the prints from stretching or 
cockling, as they are apt to, under the 
influence of the gelatine. 

In the following compound, however, 
only sufficient alcohol is used to serve as 
an antiseptic, and prevent the aggluti- 
nant from decomposing : Dissolve 4 
ounces of photographic gelatine in 16 
ounces of water (first soaking the gela- 
tine therein for an hour or two until it is 
completely softened), then remove the 
gelatine from the water, allow it to drain, 
and put it into the bottle, and pour the 
alcohol over it, and put in the glycerine 
(if the gelatine is soft, use only I ounce; 
if the gelatine is hard, use 1 ounce of the 
glycerine), then melt the gelatine by 
standing the bottle in a vessel of hot 
water, and shake up well and mix thor- 
oughly. For use, remelt by heat. The 
alcohol prevents the print from stretch- 
ing or cockling up under the influence of 
the gelatine. 

The following paste agglutinant is one 
that is very permanent and useful for all 
purposes required in a photographic 
studio: Take 5 pints of water, 10 ounces 
ot arrowroot, 1 ounce of gelatine, and a 
t pint (10 fluidounces) of alcohol, and 
proceed to combine them as follows: 
Make arrowroot into a thick cream with 
a little of the water, and in the remainder 
Pi the water soak the gelatine for a few 
afte , r w J lic} } m elt the gelatine in 
root nA? by 5 e ^ n S h < add the a "ow- 
boil and allow to boil for 4 or 5 minutes, 



then allow to cool, and mix in the alcoti i 
adding a few drops of oil of cloves. 1 

Perhaps one of the most useful co 
pounds tor photographic purposes is tW 
prepared as follows: Soak 4 ounces of 
hard gelatine in 15 ounces of water f or 
few hours, then melt the gelatine hv 
heating it in a glue pot until the solution 
is quite clear and free from lumps. Add 
6 oz. of starch to 65 oz. of cold water 
stir until free from lumps. Pour this into 
the boiling; gelatine solution, and con- 
tinue stirring, and if the starch is not 
completely cooked, boil up the mixture 
for a few minutes until it "blows," being 
careful to keep it well stirred so ad not 
to burn; when cold add a few drops of 
carbolic acid or some essential oil as an 
antiseptic to prevent the compound from 
decomposing or becoming sour. 

A useful photographic mucilage, which 
is very liquid, is obtained by mixing equal 
bulks of gum-arabic and gum-dragon 
mucilages of the sameconsistence. The 
mixture of these mucilages will be con- 
siderably thinner than either of them 
when alone. 

As an agglutinant for general use in the 
studio, the following is recommended: 
Dissolve 2 ounces of gum arabic in 5 
ounces of water, and for every 250 parts 
of the mucilage add 20 parts o£ a. solu- 
tion of sulphate of aluminum, prepared 
by dissolving 1 part of the sulphate in 
20 parts of water (common alum should 
not be used, only the pure aluminum 
sulphate, because common alum is a 
mixture of sulphates, and usually con- 
taminated with iron salts). The addi- 
tion of the sulphate solution to the 
gum mucilage renders the latter less 
hygroscopic, and practically waterproof, 
besides being very adhesive to _ any 
materials, particularly those exhibiting a 
smooth surface. 

MUCILAGES : 

For Affixing Labels to Glass and Other 
Objects. — I. — The mucilage is made dv 
simply pouring over the gum e .^ oU ^i 
water to a little more than cover it, &Q 
then, as the gum swells, adding p ore ^i 
from time to time in small portions un^ 
the mucilage is brought to sued 
sistency that it may be easily s P reaa ,.;,itf 
the brush. The mucilage keeps »W 
well without the addition of any » 
septic. „_ 

b.-Tragacanth Jj, 

Acacia * - nq 

Thymol M^nS 

Glycerine.... 4 ounces 

Water, sufficient to . . 
make 3 P lDtS 



ADHESIVES 



43 



Dissolve the gums In 1 pint of water, 
Birain and add the glycerine, in which 
*he thymol is suspended; shake well and 
add sufficient water to make 2 pints. 
This separates on standing, but a single 
shake mixes it sufficiently for use. 

III. — Rye flour Bounces 

Powdered acacia. 1 ounce 

Glycerine 2 ounces 

Oil of cloves 40 drops 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Rub the rye flour and the acacia to a 
smooth paste with S ounces of cold water; 
strain through cheese cloth, and pour 
into 1 pi 11 * °f boiling water and continue 
the heat until as thick as desired. When 
nearly cold add the glycerine and oil of 
cloves. 

IV. — One part, by weight, of traga- 
canth, when mixed with 95-per-cent alco- 
hol to form 4 fluidounces, forms a liquid in 
which a portion of the tragacanth is dis- 
solved and the remainder suspended; 
this remains permanently fluid, never 
deteriorates, and can be used in place of 
the present mucilage; 4 to 8 minims to 
each ounce of mixture is sufficient to 
suspend any of the insoluble substances 
usually given in mixtures. 

V. — To 250 parts of gum-arabic muci- 
lage add 20 parts of water and 2 parts of 
sulphate of alumina and heat until dis- 
solved. 

VI. — Dissolve § pound gum traga- 
canth, powdered, \ pound gum arable, 
powdered, cold water to the desired con- 
sistency, and add 40 drops carbolic acid. 

Mucilage of Acacia.— Put the gum, 
which should be of the best kind, in a flask 
the size of which should be large enough 
to contain the mucilage with about one- 
fifth of its space to spare (i. e., the product 
should fill it about four fifths full). Now 
tare, and wash the gum with distilled wa- 
ter, letting the latter drain away as much 
as possible before proceeding further. 
Add the requisite quantity of distilled 
water slowly, which, however, should 
in-st have added to it about ] 0 per cent of 
hmewater. Now cork the flask, and lay 
H without shaking, horizontally in a cool 
Place and let it remain quietly for about 
I hours, then give it a half turn to the 
right _ without disturbing its horizontal 
position. Repeat this operation three or 
lour times during the day, and keep it 
until the gum is completely dissolved 
(.'which will not be until the fourth day 
iP. r °hably), then strain through a thin 
| cloth previously wet with distilled wa- 
I "; r » avoiding, in so doing, the formation 
j °i foam or bubbles. This precaution 
Should, also be observed in deeantation 



of the percolate into smaller bottles m-o 
vided with paraffine corks. The small 
amount of hmewater, as will be u rider 
stood, is added to the solvent water in 
order to prevent the action of free acid! 

Commercial Mucilage. — Dissolve * 
pound white glue m equal parts water 
and strong vinegar, and add \ as much 
alcohol and £ ounce alum dissolved in a 
little water. To proceed, first get good 
glue and soak in cold water until it 
swells and softens. Use pale vinegar, 
lour off the cold water, then melt the 

8 j\ e i° a tlliok paste in not water, and 
add the vinegar hot. When a little cool 
add the alcohol and alum water. 

To Render Gum Arabic More Ad- 
hesive. — I. — Add crystallized aluminum 
sulphate in the proportion of 2 dissolved 
in 20 parts of water to 250 parts of con- 
centrated gum solution (75 parts of gum 
in 175 parts of water). 

H- — Add to 250 parts of concentrated 
gum solution (2 parts of gum in 5 parts 
of water) 2 parts of crystallized alumi- 
num sulphate dissolved in 20 parts of 
water. This mixture glues even unsized 
paper, pasteboard on pasteboard, wood 
on wood, glass, porcelain, and other 
substances on which labels frequently do 
not adhere well. 

Envelope Gum. — The gum used by 
the United States Government on postage 
stamps is probably one of the best that 
could be used not only for envelopes but 
for labels as well. It will stick to almost 
any surface. Its composition is said to 
be the following: 

Gumarabic 1 part 

Starch 1 part 

Sugar 4 parts 

Water, sufficient to 
give the desired con- 
sistency. 

The gum arabic is first dissolved in 
some water, the sugar added, then the 
starch, after which the mixture is boi ed 
for a few minutes in order to dissolve 
the starch, after which it is thinned down 
to the desired consistency. 

Cheaper envelope gums can be made 
by substituting dextrine for the gum 
arabic, glucose for the sugar, and [adding 
boric acid to preserve and help stiffen it 

Mucilage to Mate Wood and Paste- 
hoard Adhere to Metals.— Dissolve 50 
parts bv weight, of lead acetate together 
with 5 pLI, fy height, of alum in a httie 
water/ Make a separate so ution of 75 
parts, by weight, of gum arable in 2,000 
parts by weight, of water, stir in this 500 



44 



ADHESIVES 



, c Kw weiffht. of flour, and heat slowly ' 

containing the lead acetate and alum, 
stirring them well together. 

Preservation of Gum Solution.— Put a 
small piece of camphor in the mucilage 
botUe P Camphor vapors, are genera ted 
which kill all the bacterial germs that 
have entered the bottle. The gum main- 
tains its adhesiveness to the last drop. 

Mucilage in Stick F orm.- ™s is 
known as mouth or hp glue, for the rea- 
son that the stick is to be moistened with 
the lips and rubbed on the article to be 
gummed. 

1 ounce isinglass 
1 ounce white glue 
Y 4 ounce sugar 
1 ounce water 
Boil together until the concentration is 
such that when cold the gum will be the 
required thickness. Mould into any de- 
sired shape. 

AGATE, BUTTONS OF ARTI- 
FICIAL. 

Prepare a mixture or frit of 33 parts 
of quartz sand, 65 parts calcium phos- 
phate, and 2 parts of potash. The frit, 
which has been reduced by heat to the 
fusing point, is finely ground, intimately 
mingled with a small quantity of kaolin 
and pressed in molds which yield but- 
ton-shaped masses. These masses, after 
having been fired, are given a transpar- 
ent glaze by any of the well-known proc- 
esses. 

AGING, SILVER AND GOLD: 
See Plating. 

AIR BATH. 

Metal walls of air baths are attacked 
when heating or drying substances, 
which give off acid vapors. For such 
cases the following apparatus is sug- 
gested. For the production of the drying 
apparatus take a flask with the bottom 
burst off or a bell jar tubulated above. 
A his is placed either upon a sand bath 
or upon asbestos paper, previously laid 
upon a piece of sheet iron. The sand 
so W -l hG Sh l Gt r n is P ut ™ a tripod, 

burner h i* ted b * rae " ns of a 

burner paced underneath. The sub 

stance to be dried is placed in a glass or 

poreelam dish which is put unde 



er the 



ml ] K r, u and if desired the drying dish 
may be hun R on the tripod. For rem, - 

ttlJ ?* 5 mp 3 rat ?? the tubuTu^of 
the jar is closed with a pierced cork, 



eter is thrust. In order to permit°i?' 
vapors to escape, t.liH r»n»u fl .. ta e 



through whose aperture the then 

permi 

lengthwise along the periphery. gro ° Ve d 

AIR BUBBLES IN GELATINE: 

See Gelatine. 

AIR, EXCLUSION OF, FROM SOI tt 
TIONS: ULU - 

See Photography. 

AIR-PURIFYING. 

Ozonatine is a fragrant air-purify!™ 
preparation consisting of dextrogyrate 
turpentine oil scented with slight q Uaa . 
tities of fragrant oils. 

ALABASTER CLEANING: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

ALBATA METAL: 

See Alloys. 



ALBUMEN IN URINE, DETEC- 
TION OF. 

The following is a simple and accurate 
method for the determination of albumen 
in urine: 

In a test tube filter 5 cubic centimeters 
of urine which should be clear. If the 
urine is turbid, it indicates the presence 
of protein or phosphate. Heat till it 
boils gently at the surface and add 
gradually to it 3-5 drops of 10 per cent 
acetic acid. If the precipitate disappears 
phosphates are present whereas if the 
precipitate remains and becomes more 
floccnlent albumen is present. 

ALBUMEN PAPER: 

See Photography. 



Alcohol 

TEST FOR PRESENCE OF WOOD 
ALCOHOL IN GRAIN ALUJ- 
HOL. , 

A simple method for detecting tw 
presence of wood alcohol in grain alcon 
is as follows: Heat to redness a snow 
spiral wound from copper wire an n a test 



merse in the liquid contained in a 
tube. Repeat several times so as to ^ 
sure reduction of the wood alcon 
present. Add a few crystals of resort 
to the liquid and when dissolyea p _ 
cautiously down the side of the tu»e ^ 
ccntrated sulphuric acid so as to ■ en t 
bottom layer. If wood alcohol is flt 
a characteristic violet ring will 1 i( j s , 
the zone of contact of tw0 m - * 



tne zone ot contact or t»c lipa( iiiig 
Further matter is found under tue ne 



ALCOHOL 



■'Spirit"; likewise methods of denaturing 
and a list of denaturants. 
ALCOHOL, DILUTION OF: 
See Tables. 

Alcohol, Tests for Absolute. — The 

committee for the compilation of the 
German Arzneibuch established the fol- 
lowing tests for the determination of ab- 
solute alcohol: 

Absolute alcohol is a clear, colorless, vol- 
atile, readily imflammable liquid which 
burns with a faintly luminous flame. 
Absolute alcohol has a peculiar odor, a 
burning taste, and does not affect litmus 
paper. Boiling point, 78.50. Specific 
gravity, 0-795 to 0.707. One hundred 
parts contain 99.7 to 99.4 parts, by vol- 
ume, or 99.6 to 99.0 parts, by weight, of 
alcohol. 

Absolute alcohol should have no for- 
eign smell and should mix with water 
Without cloudiness. 

After the admixture of 5 drops of sil- 
ver-nitrate solution, 10 cubic centimeters 
of absolute alcohol should not become 
turbid or colored even on heating. 

A mixture of 10 cubic centimeters of 
absolute alcohol and 0.2 cubic centimeter 
of potash lye evaporated down to 1 cubic 
centimeter should not exhibit an odor of 
fusel oil after supersaturation with dilute 
sulphuric acid. 

Five cubic centimeters of sulphuric 
acid, carefully covered, in a test tube, 
with a stratum of 5 cubic centimeters of 
absolute alcohol, should not form a rose- 
colored zone at the surface of contact, 
even on standing for some time. 

The red color of a mixture of 10 cubic 
centimeters of absolute alcohol and 1 
cubic centimeter of potassium -perman- 
ganate solution should not pass into 
yellow before 20 minutes. 

Absolute alcohol should not be dyed 
by hydrogen sulphide water or by aque- 
ous ammonia. 

Five cubic centimeters of absolute al- 
cohol should not leave behind a weighable 
residue after evaporation on water bath. 

Absolute Alcohol.— If gelatine be sus- 
pended in ordinary alcohol it will absorb 
the water, but as it is insoluble in alcohol, 
that substance will remain behind, and 
thus nearly absolute alcohol will be ob- 
tained without distillation. 

Perfumed Denaturized Alcohol. — 
East India lemon oil 1,250 parts 

Mirbane oil 1,000 parts 

Cassia oil 50 parts 

Clove oil 75 parts 

Lemon oil 100 parts 

Amyl acetate 500 parts 

Spirit (95 per cent). 7,000 parts 



*h?J J th f ? lU m the «P«it and add 
the amyl aeetate. The mV~ 
for destroying the bad odor 
ized spirit in distilling. Use 60 parW 
the perfume per 1,000 parts of spirit 

Solid Alcc-hol.-I Heat 1,000 parts oi 
denatured alcohol (90 percent) iLflaS 
of double the capacity on the water ball 
to about 140" F and then mix with 28 to 
30 parts of well-dried, rasped Venetiai 
soap and 2 parts of gum lac. \fter r« 
peated shaking, complete dissolutioi 
will take place. The solution is put 
while still warm, into metallic vessels 
closing them up at once and allowing the 
mixture to cool therein. The admis 
tyre of gum lac effects a better preservs 
tion and also prevents the evaporation c 
the alcohol. On lighting the solid spiri 
the soap remains behind. 

II. — Smaragdine is a trade name fc 
solidified alcohol. It consists of alcohc 
and gun cotton, colored with malachit 
green. It appears in the market, in tl 
form of small cubes. 

Alcohol in Fermented Beers. — Expe* 
rience has shown that \ pound of suga 
to 1 gallon of water yields about 2 per cei 
of proof spirit, or about 1 per cent of al 
solute alcohol. Beyond this amount it i 
not safe to go, if the legal limit is to t 
observed, yet a ginger beer brewed witl 
\ pound per gallon of sugar would be 
very wishy-washy compound, and thei 
is little doubt that a much larger quantit 
is generally used. The more sugar tha 
is used — up to 1 J or 1 J pounds per galloi 
— the better the drink will be and th 
more customers will relish it; but it wi. 
be as "strong" as lager and contain per 
baps 5 per cent of alcohol, which will make 
it anything but a "temperance" drink. 
Any maker who is using as much as even 
\ pound of sugar per gallon is bound tc 
get more spirit than the law allows 
Meanwhile it is scarcely accurate to ten 
ginger beers, etc., non-alcoholic. 

Alcohol Deodorizer. — 

Alcohol HI oun - ce9 

Powdered quicklime. 300 grains 
Powdered alum....- 150 gr ains 
Spirit of nitrous ether 1 i drachms 

Mix the lime and alum intimately bj 
trituration; add the alcohol and stake 
wel ; then kdd the spirit of nitrous ; ether; 
set aside for 7 days and filter through 
animal charcoal. 

Denaturized Alcohol. -There are twe 
general classes or degrees of djnatummft 
viz., the "complete" and the mcom 
piete," according to the purpose J 



ALCOHOL 




hich the alcohol so denaturized is to be 
'timately used, . , 

I —Complete denaturization by tne 
■"erman system is accomplished by tne 
ddition to every 100 liters (equal to 26* 

^T^L S n P dtthalf liters of the "stand- 
-d» denaturber, made of 4 parts of 
ood alcohol, 1 part of pyridine (a nitro- 
enous base obtained by distilling bone 
il or coal tar), with the addition of 50 
grams to each liter of oil of lavender or 
rosemary. , , 

(6) One and one fourth liters of the 
above "standard" and 2 liters of benzol 
with every 100 liters of alcohol. 

II. — Incomplete denatunwition — i. e., 
sufficient to prevent alcohol from being 
drunk, but not to disqualify it from use 
for various special purposes, for ^bich 
the wholly denaturized spirits would be 
unavailable— is accomplished by several 
methods as follows, the quantity and 
nature of each substance given being 
the prescribed dose for each 100 liters 
(26J gallons) of spirits: 

(c) Five liters of wood alcohol or £ 
liter of pyridine. 

(d) Twenty liters of solution of shellac, 
containing 1 part gum to 2 parts alcohol 
of 90-per-cent purity. Alcohol for the 
manufacture or celluloid and pegamoid 
is denaturized. 

(e) By the addition of 1 kilogram of 
camphor or 2 liters oil of turpentine or 
£ liter benzol to each 100 liters of spirits. 
Alcohol to be used in the manufacture 
of ethers, aldehyde, agaricin, white lead t 
bromo-silver gelatines, photographic pa- 

Sers and plates, electrode plates, colic- 
ion, salicylic acid and salts, aniline 
chemistry, and a great number of other 
purposes, is denaturized by the addition 
of — ■ 

{/) Ten liters sulphuric ether, or 1 
part of benzol, or j part oil of turpentine 
or 0.025 part of animal oil. 
■ t For the manufacture of varnishes and 
inks alcohol ; - — *■- J ' - • -- 



0.025 part of animal oil. 
For the manufacture of 
inks alcohol is denaturized byThTadd£ 

j e ?u ° f tur P eritine or animal oil, 
and for the production of soda soaps b^ 
the addition of 1 kilogram of castor oil 
Alcohol for the production of lanolin is 

each hectoliter of spirits. 
ALE. 

SeterS 1 lu™ 1 ™ n **™, which are 
and the / ^ WantS , ° f the ™^umer 
? intend P ed rtl ^t-. m - ke ^ f ° r ^ » 



Burton, 



v a * t * v us ' finer kinds" of 

like ale's El? ? avarian - ar *d other 
° ales ' havin g undergone a thorough 



fermentation, contain only a small n 
tity of undecomposed sugar and 
varying from 1 to 5 per cent. rJ Uiii i 
these are highly "hopped" or "bittp i » 
the further to promote their preserver ' ' 
during transit and change of w 0n 
ature. Mild or sweet ales, on the ^ 
trary, are less accentuated by lengthen °j 
fermentation, and abound in saccha 
and gummy matter. They are 
fore, more nutritious, though less into 
icating, than those previously referred ?~ 

In brewing the finer kinds of ales na?" 
malt and the best hops of the current 
season's growth are always employed* 
and when it is desired to produce a hquor 
possessing little color, very great atten- 
tion is paid to their selection. With the 
same object, the boiling is conductedwith 
more than the usual precautions, and the 
fermentation is carried on at a somewhat 
lower temperature than that commonly 
allowed for other varieties of beer. For 
ordinary ale, intended for immediate use, 
the malt may be all pale; but, if the liquor 
be brewed for keeping, and in warm 
weather, when a slight color is not objec- 
tionable, one-fifth, or even one-fourth of 
amber malt may be advantageously em- 
ployed. From 41 to 6 pounds of hops is 
the quantity commonly used to the one- 
fourth of malt, for ordinary ales; and 7 
pounds to 10 pounds for "keeping" ales. 
The proportions, however, must greatly 
depend on the intended quality and de- 
scription of the brewing and the period 
that will be allowed for its maturation. 

The stronger varieties of ale usually 
contain from 6 to 8 per cent of "absolute 
alcohol"; ordinary strong ale, 41 to 6 per 
cent; mild ale, 3 to 4 percent; and table ale, 
1 to li per cent (each by volume); togeth- 
er with some undecomposed saccharine, 
gummy, and extractive matter, the bitter 
and narcotic principles of the hop, some 
acetic acid formed by the oxidation oi 
the alcohol, and very small and variable 
quantities of mineral and saline matter. 

Ordinary ale-wort (preferably paleJ. 
sufficient to produce 1 barrel, }S s [ oW / 
boiled with about 3 handfuls of ho? s * 
and 13 to 14 pounds of crushed groaxs. 
until the whole of the soluble patter 0 
the latter is extracted. The resulting 
liquor, after being run through a 
strainer and become lukewarm, is ^ 
mented with 2 or 3 pints of j^cast; 
as soon as the fermentation is a ^ 
height, is either closely bunged 
draft or is at once put into strong ' . e( j 
ware bottles, which arc then well co 
and wired. 4.,:tinUS< 

White ale is said to be very nutm» ^ 
though apt to prove laxative to tn 



ALLOYS 



47 



accustomed to its use. It is drunk in a 
state of effervescence or lively fermenta- 
tion; the glass or cup containing it being 
kept in constant motion, wlien removed 
from the mouth, until the whole is con- 
sumed, in order that the thicker portion 
may not subside to the bottom. 

ALE, GINGER: 

See Beverages. 

ALFEITCDE METAL: 
See Alloys. 

ALKALI, HOW TO DETECT: 

See Soaps. 

ALKALOIDS, ANTIDOTES TO; 

See Atropine. 

Alloys 

No general rules can be given for 
alloying metals. Alloys differing greatly 
in fusibility are commonly made by 
adding the more fusible ones, either in 
the melted state or in small portions at a 
time, to the other melted or heated to 
the lowest possible temperature at which 
perfect union will take place between 
them. The mixture is usually effected 
under a flux, or some material that will 
promote liquefaction and prevent vola- 
tilization and unnecessary exposure to 
the air. Thus, in melting lead and tin 
together for solder, rosin or tallow is 
thrown upon the surface is rubbed with 
sal ammoniac'; and in combining some 
metals, powdered charcoal is used for 
the same purpose. Mercury or quick- 
silver combines with many metals m the 
cold, forming amalgams, or easily fusible 
alloys (q. v.). 

Alloys generally possess characteris- 
tics unshared by their component metals. 

£- U i' co PP er an d zinc form brass, 
which has a different density, hardness, 
and color from either of its constituents. 
Whether the metals tend to unite in 
atomic proportions or in any definite 
ratio is still undetermined. The evi- 
dence afforded by the natural alloys of 
gold and silver, and by the phenomena 
acco m p an yi n{! the cooling of several 
alloys from the state of fusion, goes far 
«> prove that such is the case (Rud- 
Der g). The subject is, however, one of 
«jnaiderable difficulty, as metals and 
metallic compounds are generally solu- 
f e . la each other, and unite by simple 
oni? and contac t- That they do not 
combine indifferently with each other, 
tut j?".^ 36 a species of elective affinity 
Q( Jt dissimilar to other bodies, is clearly 



shown by the homogeneity and superior 
quality of many alloys in which the 2 
stituent metals are in atorTic proportion 
The variation of the specific gravity and 
melting points of alloys from the mean 
of those of their component metals also 
affords strong evidence of a chemical 
change having taken place. Thus, alloys 
generally melt at lower temperatures than 
their separate metals. They also usually 
possess more tenacity and hardness than 
the mean ot their constituents. 

Matthiessen found that when weights 
are suspended to spirals of hard-drawn 
wire made of copper, gold, or platinum, 
they become nearly straightened when 
stretched by a moderate weight; but 
wires of equal dimensions composed of 
copper-tin (12 per cent of tin), siJver- 
platinum (30 per cent of platinum), and 
gold-copper (84 per cent of copper) scarce- 
ly undergo any permanent change in fora 
when subjected to tension by the same 
weight. 

The same chemist gives the following 
approximate results upon the tenacity 
of certain metals and wires hard-drawi 
through the same gauge (No. 23): 

Pounds 

Copper, breaking strain 25-S( 

Tin, breaking strain .under 

Lead, breaking strain under 

Tin-lead (20% lead) about 

Tin-copper (12% copper). . .about 7 

Copper-tin (12% tin) about 80-9C 

Gold (12% tin) 20-2i 

Gold-copper (8.4% copper) 70-7£ 

Silver (8.4% copper) 45-5C 

Platinum (8.4% copper) 45-51 

Silver-platinum (30% platinum) . 75-80 

On the other hand, the malleability, 
ductility, and power of resisting oxyge: 
of alloys is generally diminished. Th 
alloy formed of two brittle metals is 
always brittle; that of a brittle and a duc- 
tile metal, generally so; and even two 
ductile metals sometimes unite to form 
a brittle compound. The alloys formed 
of metals having different fusing points 
are usually malleable while cold and 
brittle while hot. The action of the a r 
on alloys is generally less than on their 
simple metals, unless the former are 
heated. A mixture of 1 part of tin and 
3 parts of lead is scarcely acted on at 
common temperatures; but at a .red ^eat 
it readily tafces, fire and continues to 
burn for some time like a piece of bad 
turf. In like manner, a mixture o f tin 
and zinc, when strongly heated, de- 
composes both moist air and steam with 

ra The ty specific gravity of alloys is rarely 



48 

•° S oa s considerable condensation 
m many cases <-ou=i« w , t u ere 1S a 

OI eXpa Sty°retwe e nTwrmetal S! the 
323k o^hSr X » ^nerally greater 
th?n Se calculated mean; and vice versa, 
Is may be %cen in the following table: 

Allots having a density 
Greater than the Mean of their Constit- 
uents: 

Copper and bismuth, 

Copper and palladium, 

Copper and tin, 

Copper and zinc, 

Gold and antimony, 

Gold and bismuth, 

Gold and cobalt, 

Gold and tin, 

Gold and zinc, 

Lead and antimony, 

Palladium and bismuth, 

Silver and antimony, 

Silver and bismuth, 

Silver and lead, 

Silver and tin, 

Silver and zinc. 

Less than the Mean of their Constituents: 

Gold and copper. 
Gold and iridium, 
Gold and iron, 
Gold and lead, 
Gold and nickel, 
Gold and silver, 
Iron and antimony, 
Iron and bismuth, 
Iron and lead, 
Nickel and arsenic, 
Silver and copper, 
Tin and antimony, 
Tin and lead, 
Tin and palladium, 
Zinc and antimony. 

Compounding Alloys.— Considerable 
experience is necessary to insure success 
in compounding alloys, especially when 
tne metals employed vary greatly in 
fusibility and volatility. The following 
are rules supplied by an experienced 
workman: 

I. Melt the least fusible, oxidizable 

WtSf l f - rSt ' ^ d ^ a * d otheS 
neated to their nnmt nf F„ 0 ;~„ •, 



ALLOYS 



to their point of fusion or near it 

ex,o lv i 13 red t0 make an al W of 
exactly 1 part of copper and 3 of zinc it 

will be : impossible to do so by puUine 

proportion, of the metals in a c?uciblf 



and exposing the whole to heat. Much 
of the zmc Would fl Qff . * Much 

the copper was melted. First melt tht 
melted m another crucible. The 



should be in excess, as some of it , 
lost anyway. WU1 b 

%. Some alloys, as copper and • 
copper and arsenic, may be formal 
exposing heated plates of the least r ' 
ble metal to the vapor of the other J 



een 
zinc 



making brass in thelarge way, thiani,. 
of copper are dissolved, as it were > 
melted zinc until the proper proporti' 1 
have been obtained. 0 

3. The surface of all oxidizable metal 
should be covered with some protects 
agent, as tallow for very fusible one? 
rosin for lead and tin, charcoal for zinc! 
copper, etc. ^ 

4. Stir the metal before casting and 
if possible, when casting, with a white- 
wood stick; this is much better for the 
purpose than an iron rod. 

5. If possible, add a small portion of 
old alloy to the new. If the alloy is re- 
quired to make sharp castings and 
strength is not a very great object, the 

Eroportion of old alloy to the new should 
e increased. In all cases a new or 
thoroughly well-cleansed crucible should 
be used. 

To obtain metals and metallic alloys 
from their compounds, such as oxides, 
sulphides, chlorides, etc., a process lately 
patented makes use of the reducing 
qualities of aluminum or its alloys witn 
magnesium. The finely powdered ma- 
terial (e.g., chromic oxide) is placed in a 
crucible mixed with aluminum oxide. 
The mixture is set afire by means of a 
soldering pipe or a burning magnesium 
wire, and the desired reaction takes place. 
For igniting, one may also employ with 
advantage a special priming cartridge 
consisting of pulverized aluminum to 
which a little magnesium may be mixed, 
and peroxide of magnesia, which is 
shaped into balls and lighted wjtJi & 
magnesium wire. By suitable additions 
to the pulverized mixture, alloys 
taining aluminum, magnetism, 
mium, manganese, copper, iron, 
silicic acid, etc., are obtained. 



con- 
chro- 
boroHj 



ALUMINUM ALLOYS. 

M. H. Pecheux has contributed to t 
Comptes Rendus, from time to tinl Vyg 
results of his investigations into tiiea ^ 
of aluminum with soft metals, ana ^ 
following constitutes a brief summary 

his observations: , , 

. melted 

Lead.— When aluminum ,i s a t e r 
and lead is added in proportion t g]1 
than 10 per cent, the metals se H a a ] u mi- 
cooling into three layers— }, ' n tai»* 
num, and between them an alloy c ioU i». 
ing from 90 to 97 per cent of aiuiu 



ALLOYS 



4; 



The alloys with 93, 95, and 98 per cent have 
densities of 2.745, 8.674, and 2.600 re- 
spectively, and melting points near that 
of aluminum. Their color is like that 
of aluminum, but they are less lustrous. 
£D are malleable, easily cut, softer than 
a l um jnum, and have granular fracture. 
On remelting they become somewhat 
richer in lead, through a tendency to 
•quation. They do not oxidize in moist 
t, nor at their melting points. They 
re attacked in the cold by hydrochloric 
nd bv strong sulphuric acid, with evo- 
"ution of hydrogen, and by strong nitric 
cid when hot" strong solution of po- 
tassium hydroxide also attacks them. 
They are without action on distilled 
ater, whether cold or hot. 
Zinc. — Well-defined alloys were ob- 
tained, corresponding to the formulas 
Zn,Al, Zn,AJ, ZnAI, ZnAl 2 , ZnAla, 
ZnAh, ZnAU, ZnAl 10 , ZnAl ls . Their 
melting points and densities all lie be- 
tween those of zinc and aluminum, and 
those containing most zinc are the hard- 
est. They are all dissolved by cold 
hydrochloric acid and by hot dilute nitric 
acid. Cold concentrated nitric acid at- 
tacks the first three, and cold dilute acid 
the first five. The Zn a Al, ZnAl 6 , ZnAl 10 , 
and ZnAl, 2 are only slightly affected by 
cold potassium-hydroxide solution; the 
others are strongly attacked, potassium 
zincate and aluminate probably being 
formed. 

Tin. — A filed rod of tin-aluminum alloy 
plunged in cold water gives off for some 
minutes bubbles of gas, composed of 
hydrogen and oxygen in explosive pro- 
portions. An unfiled rod, or a filed rod 
of either aluminum or tin, is without 
action, though the unfiled rod of alloy 
will act on boiling water. The filed rod 
of alloy, in faintly acid solution of cop- 
per or zinc sulphate, becomes covered 
with a deposit of copper or zinc, while 
bubbles of oxygen are given off. M. 
I | ccheux believes that the metals are truly 
alloyed only at the surface, and that filing 
'ays bare an almost infinitely numerous 
series of junctions of the two metals, 
"Which, heated by the filing, act as ther- 
mocouples. 

1 bismuth.— By the method used for 
lead, bismuth alloys were obtained con- 
taining 75, 85, 88, and 94 per cent of 
aluminum, with densities 2.86, 2.79, 
and 2.74 respectively. They were 
sonorous, brittle, finely ' grained, and 
homogeneous, silver-white, and with 
melting points between those of their con- 
stituents, but nearer that of aluminum. 
-Lhey are not sxidized in air at the tem- 



perature of casting, but are readily at 
tacked by acids, concentrated or dilute 

TV, m 7 A P^^-hydroxide «olu Ton 
The filed alloys behave like those of tin 
but still more markedly. 

-n ag ^ esi ^ m -- These w«e obtain 
with 66, 68, 78 77, and 85 per cent 
ot aluminum, and densities % 24 2 47 
2.32, 2.37, 2.47. They are brittle, witl 
large granular fracture, silver-white fil< 
well, take a good polish, and Jiave melt 
ing points near that of aluminum 
Being viscous when melted, they are dif- 
ficult to cast, and when slowly cooled 
form a gray, spongy mass which cannot 
be remelted. They do not oxidize ir 
air at the ordinary temperatures, bi 
burn readily at a bright-red heat. The,, 
are attacked violently by acids and bj 
potassium-hydroxide solution, decom- 
pose hydrogen peroxide, and slowly de 
compose water even in the cold. 

Tin, Bismuth, and Magnesium.— The 
action of water on these alloys just re- 
ferred to has been recently demonstrated 
on a larger scale, 5 to 6 cubic centimeters 
of hydrogen having been obtained in 2C 
minutes from 2 cubic centimeters of the 
filed tin alloy. The bismuth alloy yiel< 
ed more hydrogen than the tin alloy, anc 
the magnesium alloy more than the bis 
muth alloy. The oxygen of the decoi 
posed water unites with the aluminui 
Larger quantities of hydrogen are ot 
tained from copper-sulphate solution, 
apart from the decomposition of thr 
solution by precipitation of copper at tl 
expense of the metal alloyed with the 
aluminum. The alloys of aluminum 
with zinc and lead do not decompose 
pure water, but do decompose the wat€ 
of copper-sulphate solution, and, more 
slowly, that of zinc-sulphate solution. 

Aluminum is a metal whose properties 
are very materially influenced by a pro- 
portionately small addition of copper. 
Alloys of 99 per cent aluminum and 1 
cent of copper are hard, brittle, and blu 
in color; 95 percent of aluminum and 
per cent of copper give an alloy which ca 
Ke hammered, but with 10 per cent of cop- 
per the metal can no longer be worM 
feh 80 per cent and upward of coppe 
are obtained alloys of a beau tiful. yel^ 
color, and these mixtures, conl ™f *^ 
5 to 10 per cent of aluminum and from 9 
to 95 per cent of °opp^^etheg^ne 
aluminum bronzes. The 10-per-cent al 
lovs are of a pure golden-yellow 
w?th fi per cent "of aluminum they 
Mddi.h53fc£ like gold heavily alloy?. 



luisJ 



color; 
ar 



with copper, 



and a @-per-cent admix 



ture is of an almost pure copper 



ed 



50 



ALLOYS 



As the proportion of copper increases, 
the brittWss is diminished, and alloys 
containing 10 per cent and less of aluminum 
ean be used fSr industrial purposes, the 
£S consisting of 90 per cent of copper and 
?Tof aluminum. The hardness of this 
alloy approaches that of the general 
Cnzet; whence its name. It can be 
stretXd out into thin sheets between 
rollers, worked under the hammer, and 
shaped as desired by beating or pressure, 
in powerful stamping presses. Un ac- 
count of its hardness it takes a fine pol- 
ish, and its peculiar greemsh-gold I color 
resembles that of gold alloyed with cop- 
per and silver together. 

Alloys with a still greater proportion ot 
copper approach this metal more and 
more nearly in their character; the color 
of an alloy, for instance, composed of 
95 per cent of copper and 5 per cent ot alu- 
minum, can be distinguished from pure 
gold only by direct comparison, and the 
metal is very hard, and also very mal- 
leable. 

Electrical Conductivity of Aluminum 
Alloys.— During three years' exposure to 
the atmosphere, copper-aluminum alloys 
in one test gradually diminished in con- 
ductivity in proportion to the amount of 
copper they contained. The nickel-copper 
aluminum alloys, which show such re- 
markably increased tensile strength as 
compared with good commercial alumi- 
num, considerably diminished in total con- 
ductivity. On the other hand, the man- 
ganese-copper aluminum alloys suffered 
comparatively little diminution in total 
conductivity, and one of them retained 
comparatively high tensile strength. It 
was thought that an examination of 
the structure of these alloys by aid of 
microphotography might throw some 
light on the great difference which exists 
between some of their physical proper- 
ties. For instance, a nickel-copper alu- 
minum alloy has 1.6 times the tensile 
strength of ordinary commercial alumi- 
num. Under a magnification of 800 
diameters practically no structure could 
be discovered. Considering the re- 
markable crystalline structure exhibited 



by ordi nary commercial aluminum near 
trie surface of an ingot, when allowed to 
solidity at an ordinary rate, the want of 

nV^ t Ure + u m these all °y s must be attrib- 
uted to the process of drawing down. 

inference is that the great differ- 
ence which exists between their tensile 

to variation in structure. 

hif ol ? r ^ ^IWs of Aluminum. — A pur- 
ple scintillating composition is produced 



by an alloyage of 78par ts f l d 
parts alummum With platmum a Co i J 
colored alloy is obtained; with palk r 
a copper-colored one; and with coblrtt 

Easily 

i Q1 uicult of 

fusion, such as iridium, osmi 



and nickel one of a yellow color J ^° i 
" le metals of the color of alum^ y 
give white _ alloys. Metal diffi ™ ? 5 



fusible 



of 



iu^^, — ".""^> osmium, titn 

mum, etc., appear m abnormal tones 
color through such alloyag es > 

Aluminum -Brass. — Aluminum 1 ^ 
cent; specific gravity, 8.35; tensile streniSf 
40. Aluminum, 3 per cent; specific grtv 
ity, 8.33 ; tensile strength, 65. The last 
named is harder than the first. 

Aluminum-Copper. — Minikin is mm- 
cipally aluminum with a small percent- 
age oi_ copper and nickel. It is alloyed" 
by mixing the aluminum and copper 
then adding the nickel. It resembles 
palladium and is very strong. 

Aluminum - Silver. — I. — Silver, 3 per 
cent; aluminum, 97 per cent. A hand- 
some color. 

II. — A silver aluminum that is easily 
worked into various articles contains 
about one-fourth silver and three-fourths 
of aluminum. 

Aluminum-Tin. — Bourbon metal is 
composed of equal parts of aluminum 
and tin; it solders readily. 

Aluminum -Tungsten. — A new metal 
alloy consisting of aluminum and tung- 
sten is used of late in France in the con- 
struction of conveyances, especially car- 
riages, bicycles, and motor vehicles. 
The French call it partinium; the com- 
position of the new alloy varies according 
to the purposes for which it is used. It 
is considera bly cheaper than aluminum, 
almost as light, and has a greater resist- 
ance. The strength is stated at 82 to 3 ( 
kilograms per square millimeter. 

Aluminum -Zinc. —Zinc, 3 per cert; 
aluminum, 97 per cent. Very ductus 
white, and harder than aluminum. 

AMALGAMS : 

See Fusible Alloys. 

Anti-Friction Bearing or Babbitt Met- 
als.— Th ese all oys are usually suPP ort ™ e ;j 
bearings of brass, into which it is po 
after they have been tinned, ana nf* ^ 
and put together with an exact mo ^ 
the axle, or other working piece, p ^ 
clay being previously applied, ■ ^ 
usual manner, as a lute or outer . g 
Soft gun metal is also excellent, a» ^ 
much used for bearings. . ;L n th e 
come less heated in working tt" 



hardermetals, and less grease or oil is con- 
sequently required when they are used. 
I, — An anti-friction metal of excellent 
ua ']ity and one that has been used with 
success is made as follows : 17 parts 
zinc; 1 pa rt copper; 1* parts antimony; 
prepared in the following way: Melt the 
copper in a small crucible, then add the 
antimony, and lastly the zinc, care being 
taken not to burn the zinc. Burning 
can be prevented by allowing the copper 
and antimony to cool slightly before add- 
ing the zinc. This metal is preferably 
cast into the shape desired and is not 
used as a lining metal because it requires 
too great a heat to pour. It machines 
nicely and takes a fine polish on bearing 
surfaces. It has the appearance of 
aluminum when finished. Use a lubri- 
cating oil made from any good grade of 
machine oil to which 3 parts of kerosene 
have been added. 

II. — Copper, 6 parts; tin, 12 parts; 
lead, 150 parts; antimony, 30 parts; 
wrought iron, 1 part; cast iron, "1 part. 
For certain purposes the composition is 
modified as follows: Copper, ICS parts; 
tin, 40 parts; lead, 120 parts; antimony, 
24 parts; wrought iron, 1 part; cast iron, 
1 part. In both cases the wrought iron 
is cut up in small pieces, and in this state 
it will melt readily in fused copper and 
cast iron. After the mixture lias been 
well stirred, the tin, lead, and antimony 
are added; these are previously melted in 
separate crucibles, and when mingled the 
whole mass is again stirred thoroughly. 
Ihc product may then be run into ingots, 
to be employed when needed. When 
run mto the molds the surface should be 
well skimmed, for in this state it oxidizes 
rapidly. The proportions may be varied 
without materially affecting the results. 

III. — From tin, 16 to 20 parts; anti- 
mony, g parts . j £ad> j . fuged tQ _ 

gather, and then blended with copper, 
triction or high velocity. 

fci on Inc ' 6 parts; tin ' 1 P art ; c °p- 

S 20 ,P arts - Used when the metal is 
exposec I to violent shocks. 

4 t!"T ad > 1 P art - tin > 3 parts; zinc, 
tho Z } , c ?PP er > 68 Parts. Used when 

V? \ 13 ex P° se d to heat. 
Dart. ' 48 to 50 Parts; antimony, 5 

vn co % er ' 1 P art - 
sin/ j' , ton ' s -) Tin > some 

VhT d a rn tt ! e c °PP er " 
pewti . ( ? rdma iy-) Tin, or hard 
of a «* J W or without a small portion 
last ?t ■ ony 07 eo PPer. Without the 
&eteJ>+* a i?* to p P reft "3 aut under the 
theh ° "savy machinery. Used for 
searings of locomotives, etc. 



P&Ztt&Zt Parts; -"to""*- * 

X.— -Magnolia Metal.— Tim i« ^ 
posed of 40 parts of lead. 7* part? 
an bmony, £* of tin, \ of'bismuS ft 
al ummum, and } of graphite. It i s use 
as an antifriction metal, and takes i 
name from its manufacturer's mar' 
a magnolia flower. 

ARGENT ATT : 

See German Silver, under this title. 

BELL METAL. 

The composition of bell metal van 
considerably, as may be seen below: 
m I.— (Standard.) Copper, 78 part 
tin, 22 parts; fused together and cas 
The most sonorous of all the alloys 
copper and tin. It is easily fusible, a- 
has a fine compact grain, and a vitreo 
conchoidal and yellowish-red fractur 
According to Klaproth, the finest-tone 
Indian gongs have this composition. 

II. — (Founder's Standard.) Coppe 
77 parts; tin, 21 parts; antimony, 2 pa 
Slightly paler and inferior to No. I. 

III. — Copper, 80 parts; tin, 20 pa 
Very deep-toned and sonorous. Use 
in China and India for the larger gong 
tam-tams, etc. 

IV. — Copper, 78 to 80 parts; tin, 22 t 
20 parts. Usual composition of Chines 
cymbals, tam-tams, etc. 

V. — Copper, 75 (= 3) parts; tin, 2 
(=1) part. Somewhat brittle. Infra 
turc, semivitreous and bluish-red. Use 
for church and other large bells. 

VI. — Copper, 80 parts; tin, 10} parts 
zinc, 5\ parts; lead, 4>\ parts. Enghs 
bell metal, according to Thomson. In- 
ferior to the last; the lead being apt t 
form isolated drops, to the injury ot tiie 
uniformity of the alloy. 

VII. — Copper, 68 parts; tin, 32 parts 
Brittle; fracture conchoida^ and asn 



rray. Best proportions 



for house bells, 



Lnd bells, etc.; for which, ^wevcr y 
of copper and 1 of tm is commonly 



^opper „~- j 
substituted by the founders. 

VIII —Copper, 72 parts; tin, 26 A parts, 

feci, U Pa'** Used J* 1 the PanS tOUSe 
for the bells of small clods. 

IX.— Copper, 72 parts; tm, 26 parts 
zincV 2 parti. the IaS *' f ° 

Ve X-cipK%0 parts; tin, *6 parts; 



ALLOYS 



inc. 2 jarts. Used for the bells of repeat- 

J*— Melt together copper, 100 parts; 
« 35 parts. After being cast into the 
required object, it should be made red- 
hoi and then plunged immediately mto 
cold water in order to impart to it the 
requite degree of sonorousness. For 
cymbals and gongs. 

XII —Melt together copper, 80 parts, 
tin 20 parts. When cold it has to be 
hammered out with frequent annealing. 

XIII. — Copper, 78 parts; tin, 22 parts, 
This is superior to the former, and it can 
be rolled out. For tam-tams and gongs. 

XIV. — Melt together copper, 72 parts ; 
tin, 26 to 56 parts; iron A part. Lscd 
in making the bells of ornamental French 
clocks. 

Castings in bell metal are all more or 
less brittle; and, when recent, have a 
color varying from a dark ash-gray to 
grayish- white, which is darkest in the 
more cuprous varieties, in which it 
turns somewhat on the yellowish-red or 
bluish-red. The larger the proportion 
of copper in the alloy, the deeper and 
graver the tone of the bells formed of 
it. The addition of tin, iron, or zinc, 
causes them to give out their tones sharp- 
er. Bismuth and lead are also often 
used to modify the tone, which each 
metal affects differently. The addition 
of antimony and bismuth is frequently 
made by the founder to give a more crys- 
talline grain to the alloy. All these 
conditions are, however, prejudicial to 
the sonorousness of bells, and of very 
doubtful utility. Rapid refrigeration 
increases the sonorousness of all these 
alloys. Hence M. D'Arcet recommends 
that the "pieces" be heated to a cherry- 
red after tliey are cast, and after having 
been suddenly plunged into cold water, 
that they be submitted to well-regulated 
pressure by skillful hammering, until they 
assume their proper form; after which they 
are to be again heated and allowed to cool 
slowly in the air. This is the method 
adopted by the Chinese with their gongs, 
etc., a casing of sheet iron being em- 
ployed by them to support and protect 
the pieces during the exposure to heat. 
In a general way, however, bells are 
tormed and completed by simple casting, 
inis is necessarily the case with all very 
large bells. Where the quality of their 
tones is the chief object sought after, the 
greatest care should be taken to use com- 
medially pure copper. The presence 

JjJ J Uttle le , ad or an ? sin »lar metal 
greatly lessens the sonorousness of this 
alloy; while that of silver increases it. 
1 he specific gravity of a large bell is 



seldom uniform thTougn its whole 
stance; nor can the specific gravity f 
any given portion of its constituent 
als be exactly calculated owing to tl 
many interfering circumstances tl" 5 
nearer this uniformity is approached 
in other words, chemical combination 0 ;; 
complete, the more durable and fin 
toned will be the bell. In general it 
found necessary to take about one-tenrt! 
more metal than the weight of the i 
tended bell, or bells, in order to allo^v fo~ 
waste and scorification during the opera 1 
tions of fusing and casting. : 

BISMUTH ALLOYS. 

Bismuth possesses the unusual quality 
of expanding in cooling. It i S) there- 
fore, introduced in many alloys to reduce 
or check shrinkage in the mold. 

For delicate castings, and for taking 
impressions from dies, medals, etc, va- 
rious bismuth alloys are in use, whose 
composition corresponds to the follow- 
ing figures : 

1 II III IV 

Bismuth 6 5 2 8 

Tin 3 3 1 3 

Lead.. 13 3 1 5 

V. — Cliche Metal. — This alloy is com- 
posed of tin, 48 parts; lead, 32.5; bis- 
muth, 9; and antimony, 10.5. It is es- 
pecially well adapted to dabbing rollers 
for printing cotton goods, and as it pos- 
sesses a considerable degree of hardness, 
it wears well. H 

VI. — For filling out defective places in 
metallic castings, an alloy of bismuth 1 
part, antimony 3, lead 8, can be ad- 
vantageously used, 

VII. For Cementing Glass.— Most 
of the cements in ordinary use are dis- 
solved, or at least softened, by petro- 
leum. An alloy of lead S parts, tin 2, 
bismuth 2.5, melting at 212° F., w not 
affected by petroleum, and is therefore 
very useful for cementing lamps made oi 
metal and glass combined. 
LIPOWITZ'S BISMUTH ALLOY: 

See Cadmium Alloys. 

BRASS. ftwo . 

In general brass is composed oi l ^ 
thirds copper and one-third zm c > ^ 
little lead or tin is sometimes adva 
geous, as the following: . 34 

I. — Red copper, 66 parts; 
parts; lead, 1 part. , ^s; 

_ II.— Copper, G6 parts; zinc, 32 P 
tin, 1 part; lead, 1 part. . 33. £ 

III.— Copper, 64.5 parts; sub- 
parts; lead, 1.5 parts; tin, 0.5 pari- 

Brass -Aluminum.— A small aH f l^t- 
aluminumto brass (1.5 to 8 per cent; s 



ALLOYS 



• creases its hardness and elasticity, 
id this alloy is also easily worked for any 
roose. Brass containing 8 per cent of 
fluinioura has the valuable property of 
, '; n(7 but slightly affected by acids or gases. 
Alartrer percentage of aluminum makes 
/he brass brittle. It is to be noted tbat 
i ura ; nu m brass decreases very materi- 
]\y in volume in easting, and the casts 
must be cooled slowly or they will be 
brittle. It is an alloy easily made, and 
its low price, combined with its excellent 
flualities, would seem to make it in many 
cases an advantageous substitute for the 
expensive phosphorous bronze. 

Bristol Brass (Prince's Metal).— This 
alloy, which possesses properties similar 
to those of French brass, is prepared in 
the following proportions: 

I II III 

Copper 75.7 67. 2 60.8 

Zinc 24.3 32.8 39.2 

Particular care is required to prevent 
the zinc from evaporating during the fus- 
ing, and for this purpose it is customary 
to put only half of it into the first melting, 
and to add the remainder when the first 
mass is liquefied. 

Brass -Iron (Aich's Metal). — This is 
a variety of brass with an admixture of 
iron, which gives it a considerable degree 
of tenacity. It is especially adapted for 
purposes which require a hard and, at 
the same time, tenacious metal. Analyses 
of the various kinds of this metal show 
considerable variation in the proportions. 
Even the amount of iron, to which the 
hardening effect must be attributed, may 
vary within wide limits without materi- 
ally modifying the tenacity which is the 
essential characteristic of this alloy. 

A, TThe best variety of Aich's metal 
consists of copper, 60 parts; zinc, 38.2; 
rt/ n ' nV 8 ' lhe Predominating quality of 
jnis alloy is its hardness, which is claimed 
w> be not inferior to that of certain kinds 

i steel. It has a beautiful golden-yellow 
Eh* vi ls saitl not to oxidize easily, a 
♦ff 1 . e P r °perty for articles exposed to 

H of air and water. 

iron ir Pper ' 60,2 P? 3 * 35 zinc ' 38 ' 2; 
in \\ ^ nc permissible variations 

me content of iron are from 0.4 to 3 
Per cent. 

etS 8 ™ 0 metal ma y Properly be eonsid- 
sinop n 1 conncc tion with Alch's metal, 
its Z c ? ns tituents are the same and 
differ erh \ S very similar - The principal 
th at x Uce hetween the two metals is 
i atam,» e 4. rr0 /. m . etai contains a much larger 
1 thi, B n of lron - The composition of 
feiW 7 varies considerably with dif- 
ent manufacturers . 



tory, in Lower Austria ;? 0sttorn M 
parts; zinc, 41.80; ir^^^ 5 ^ 

IV.— English sterro metal i 
alloy for ship sheathing), eopp^o 
parts; zinc, 38.125; iron 15 ° p P er » 60 

The great value of this alloy He* ,*« i + 

S't?*^ T^V 3 ^ Ualed only by ?l5 
of the best steel. As an illustratmn o 
this, a wrought-iron pipe broke with 
pressure of 267 atmospheres, while a 
similar pipe of sterro metal withstood thfe 
enormous pressure of 763 atmospheres 
without cracking. Besides its remark- 
able strength, it possesses a high decree 
ot elasticity, and is, therefore, particular- 
ly suitable for purposes which require 
the combination of these two qualities, 
such as the construction of hydraulic 
cylinders. It is well known that these 
cylinders, at a certain pressure, begin tc 
sweat, that is, the interior pressure is sc 
great that the water permeates througl 
the pores of the steel. With a sterrc 
metal cylinder, the pressure can be con- 
siderably increased without any mois- 
ture being perceptible on the outside of 
the cylinder. 

Sterro metal can be made even more 
hard and dense, if required for special 
purposes, but this is effected rather bj 
mechanical manipulation than by anj 
change in the chemical composition. I 
rolled or hammered in heat, its strength 
is increased, and it acquires, in addition, 
an exceedingly high degree of tenacity. 
Special care must be taken, however, m 
hammering not to overheat the metal, 
as in this case it would become brittle and 
might crack under the hammer. Sterro 
metal is especially suitable for all the 
purposes for which the so-called red 
metal has been in the past almost ex- 
clusively used. Axle bearings, for ex- 
ample, made of sterro metal have such 
excellent qualities that many machine 
factories are now using this material 
entirely for the purpose. 

Cast Brass. —The various articles of 
bronze, so called, statuettes c ock case* 
etc., made in France, ^here this industry 
has attained great perfection .and I esten 
sive proportions, are not, inmany cases 
genuine Lonze, but fine cast ; bray- *W 

fowing are the g^Sg^'iS 
mixtures of metaJs most ij.*h j 
bv French manufacturers: 
J „ <7;nf Tin Lead 

i HI it !:S !:g 

fc:::" 8:8 S:S !:» - 



chisel, and easily gilded. 

To Cast Yellow Brass.— If good, clean, 
velTow brass sand castings « ^ 

3 pounds of spelter, 4 ounces of tin and 
q ounces of lead makes a good casting 
alloy and one which will cut free and is 
stroL H * stronger alloy be desired, 
more tin may be aided, but 4 ounce, is 
dually sufficient. If the alloy be too 
hard, reduce the proportion ot tin. 

Leaf Brass.— This alloy is also called 
Dutch gold, or imitation gold leal. It 
is made of copper, 77.75 to 84.5 parts; 
zinc; 15.5 to 22.25. Its color is pale or 
bright yellow or greenish, according to 
the proportions of the metals. It has an 
unusual degree of ductility. 

Malleable Brass.— This metal is af- 
fected less by sea water than pure copper, 
and was formerly much used for ship 
sheathing, and for making nails and 
rivets which were to come in contact with 
sea water. At the present day it has 
lost much of its importance, since all the 
larger ships are made of steel. It is 
usually composed of copper, 60 to 6£ 
parts; and zinc, 40 to 38 parts. It is 
sometimes called yellow metal, or Miintz 
metal (called after its inventor), and is 
prepared with certain precautions, di- 
rected toward obtaining as fine a grain 
as possible, experience having shown, 
that only a fine-grained alloy of uniform 
density can resist the action of the sea 
water evenly. A metal of uneven den- 
sity will wear in holes. To obtain as 
uniform a grain as possible, small sam- 
ples taken from the fused mass are cooled 
quickly and examined as to fractUTe. If 
they do not show the desired uniform 
grain, some zinc is added to the mass. 
After it has permeated the whole mass, 
a fresh sample is taken and tested, this 
being continued until the desired result 
is reached. It is scarcely necessary to 
remark that considerable experience is 
required to tell the correct composition 
of the alloy from the fracture. The mass 
is finally poured into molds and rolled 
cold. Malleable brass can be worked 
warm, like iron, being ductile in heat, a 
valuable quality. 

Experiments with malleable brass 

Y*°™ th£Lt El1 * all °y s containing up to 
68.33 per cent of copper and up to 41.67 



per cent of zinc are malleable. The T 
fn addition, a second group of such !?' 
loys, with 61.54 per cent of copp er \f A 
38.46 per cent ot zinc, which are J 
malleable in heat. 

The preparation of these all 



so 



quires considerable experience, and i 
best accomplished by melting the metal! 
together in the usual manner, and heating 
the fused mass as strongly as possible 



It must be covered with a layer of char 
coal dust to prevent oxidation of the zi ac " 
The mass becomes thinly fluid, and an 
intimate mixture of the constituents i s 



effected. ,„ iy . 

are thrown into the liquid mass until it 
no longer shows a reflecting surface 
when it is cast into ingots in iron molds! 
The ingots are plunged into water while 
still red-hot, and acquire by this treat- 
ment a very high degree of ductility. The 
alloy, properly prepared, has a fibrous 
fracture and a reddish-yellow color. 

Sheet Brass (For Sheet and Wire).— 
In the preparation of brass far the manu- 
facture of wire, an especially pure qual- 
ity of copper must be used; without this, 
all efforts to produce a suitable quality of 
brass will be in vain. That pure copper 
is indispensable to the manufacture of 
good, ductile brass may be seen from the 
great difference in the composition of the 
various kinds, all of which answer their 
purpose, but contain widely varying 
quantities of copper and zinc. The fol- 
lowing table shows the composition ot 
some excellent qualities of brass suitable 
for making sheet and wire: 



Brass Sheet — Source 

Jemappes 

Stolberg 

Romilly . . 

Rosthorn (Vienna). 
Rosthorn (Vienna). 
Rosthorn (Vienna). 
Iserlohn & Romilly 

Ludenscheid 

(Brittle) 

Hegermtihl 

Oker • 

Brass Wire — 

England 

Augsburg 

Neustadt 

Neustadt. 

Neustadt. 

Neustadt 

(Good quality) 

(Brittle) 

For wire and sheet. 



Cop- 
per 

64.6 

64.8 

70.1 

68.1 

71.5 

71.1 

70.1 

72.73 

63.66 

70.16 

68.98 



Zinc 



70.29 29 
71.89 27 
70.16 27 
71.36,28 
71.5 
71-0 
65.4 
65.5 
67.0 



Lead 

1.4 
2.0 
0.38 



US 



2.52 
0.79 
0.97 



gfi 0.28 
63 0.85 
45 0 * 
15 



2.1 
0.5 



Tin 

0.2 
0.4 
0.17 



0.20 

0.17 
0.79 



0.5 



ALLOYS 



A' s the above figures show, the per- 
t „(. of zinc in the different kinds of 
f sslies between 27 and 34. Recently, 
Hoys containing a somewhat larger 
antitv of fine have been used, it hav- 
iTbeen found that the toughness and 
If^ctility °f tne brass are increased there- 
i J without injury to its tenacity. Al- 
j | fs containing up to 37 per cent of zine 
SE s ess a high degree of ductility in the 
cold> and are well adapted for wire and 
sheet. 

Gilders' Sheet Brass. — Copper, 1 part; 
jrjnc, 1 part; tin, tV P ar t; lead, part. 
y er y readily fusible and very dense. 

White Brass. — Birmingham platina is 
an alloy of a pure white, almost silver- 
white color, remaining unaffected by 
tolerably long exposure to the atmos- 

Eherc. Unfortunately this alloy is so 
rittle that it can rarely be shaped ex- 
cept by casting. It is used only in the 
manufacture of buttons. The alloy is 
poured into molds giving rather sharp 
impressions and allowing the design on 
the button (letters or coat of arms) to 
stand out prominently with careful 
stamping. The composition of this 
alloy, also known by the name of plati- 
num lead, is as follows; 

I II 

Copper 46.5 4 

Zinc 53.5 16 

III. —Zinc, 80 parts; copper, 10 parts; 
iron, 10 parts. 

BRITANNIA METAL. 

Britannia metal is an alloy consisting 
principally of tin and antimony. Many 
varieties contain only these two metals, 
and may be considered simply as tin 
hardened with antimony, while others 
contain, m addition, certain quantities of 
aKv' sometimes lead, and occasion- 
» li y, though rarely on account of its cost, 

smuth Britannia metal is always of a 

aid e T i" te color ' with a b l uisn tin g e > 
taV! hardness makes it capable of 

tw ng , a hl S h P olis k> which is not lost 
cent g f \. Xposure to the air - Ninety per 
rivi and 10 P er ccnt or antimony 

jes a composition which is the best for 



man ^^>uuu wmcn is trie nest ior 
it fin pUr P? se s, especially for. casting, as 

fusifie t molds well> and !s readil y 

In some cases, where articles 



raadp f - oume eases, wnere articies 
stant Z° m 11 are to bc su tyected to con- 
^ the ^ ar ' a , harder alloy is required. 
ia inrT ^ P ° rtloas S iven above, the metal 
*ould JKi much harder than tin, but 

A taKl ,S °° n givc way under usage. 
Positing t a PP e nded, giving the com- 

Unnia mf i SOme of the varieties of Bri ^ 
metal and their SDecial names. 



English 

English 

English [] 

English. 

Pewter 

Pewter 

Tutania 

Queen's metal 

German 

German. . . . , . 
German (for 

casting) . . 
Malleable (for 

casting) .... 



Tin 



31.90 

90.62 

90.1 

85.4 

81.2 

80.3 

91.4 

88.5 

72.0 

84.0 

20.0 

48.0 



A^ti- Cop- „ 
mony per Zinc Le 



16.25 
7.81 
8.3 
9.66 
5.7 
7,6 

7.1 
24.0 
9.0 

64.0 



1.84 

1.46 

3.1 

0.81 

1.60 

1.8 

0.7 

3.5 

4.0 

2.0 

10.0 

3.0 



0.5 
3.06 



0.3 
0.9 



5.0 
6.0 
48.0 



11.5 
1.8 
7.6 



1.0 



Britannia metal is prepared by meltin 
the copper alone first, then adding 
part of the tin and the whole of the an- 
timony. The heat can then be quickl 
moderated, as the melting point of th 
new alloy is much lower than that o 
copper. Finally, the rest of the tin „ 
added, and the mixture stirred constant 
for some time to make it thoroughly 
homogeneous. 

An alluy_ which bears a resemblance 
to Britannia metal is Ashberry metal, 
for which there are two formulas. 

I II 

Copper 2 3 

Tin. 8 79 

Antimony 14 15 ^ 

Zinc 1 2 

Nickel 2 1 

BRONZES. 

The composition of bronze must b 
effected immediately before the casting, 
for bronze cannot be kept in store ready 
prepared. In forming the alloy, the re- 
fractory compound, copper, is first melted 
separately, the other metals, tin, zinc, 
etc., previously heated, being then 
added; the whole is then stirred and tiie 
casting carried out without loss of time. 
The process of forming the alloy must De 
effected quickly, so that there may be no 
loss of zinc, tin, or lead through oxida- 
tion, and also no interruption to the 
flow of metal, as metal added after an 
interval of time will ^ ooinbme j»g 

and by vigorous swr,^, can the « ,m 



56 



AIXOYS 



before reaching the copper. wnen «i« 
Si arc made, they must be cooled 
as amckfv as possible, for the compo- 
ae n ?s of SonzeVve a tendency to form 



Separate alloys of VBiious <jmpo a ition, 
thus producing the so-called tin spots 
This S much more likely to occur with a 
]S than with a sudden cooling of the 
mass. 

Annealing Bronze. -This, Process is 
more particularly employed in the prep- 
aration^ of alloys used in the manufacture 
of cymbals, gongs, bells, etc. The alloy 
is naturally brittle, and acquires the 
properties essential to the purpose for 
which it is intended only after casting. 
The instruments are plunged into cold 
water while red-hot, hammered, re- 
heated, and slowly cooled, when they 
become soft and sonorous. The alloy 
of copper and tin has the peculiar prop- 
erty that, whereas steel becomes hard 
through cooling, this mixture, when 
cooled suddenly, becomes noticeably soft 
and more malleable. The^ alloy is 
heated to a dark-red heat, or, in the case 
of thin articles, to the melting point of 
lead, and then plunged in cold water. 
The alloy may be hammered without 
splitting or breaking. 

Aluminum Bronze. — This is prepared 
by melting the finest copper in a cruci- 
ble, and adding the aluminum. The 
copper is cooled thereby to the thickly 
fluid point, but at the moment of the 
combination of the two metals, so much 
heat is released that the alloy becomes 
white hot and thinly fluid. Aluminum 
bronze thus prepared is usually brittle, 
and acquires its best qualities only after 
having been remelted several times. It 
may be remarked that, in order to obtain 
a bronze of the best quality, only the very 
purest copper must be used; with an infe- 
rior quality of copper, all labor is wasted. 
Aluminum bronze is not affected by ex- 
posure to the air; and its beautiful color 
makes it very suitable for manufactur- 
ing various ornamental articles, includ- 
ing clock cases, door knobs, etc. 

Aluminum bronze wire is almost as 
strong as good steel wire, and castings 
made from it are almost as hard as steely 
to bending or sag- 



iron; rts resistance 
ging is great. 



. I \"~" A .g° od formula is 90 to 95 per cent 
of : aluminum and 5 to 10 per cent of cop- 
per, of golden color, which keeps well m 
tne air, without soon becoming dull and 
changing color like pure copper and iS 



alloys with tin and zinc (bronze V, 
etc.). It can be cast excellently 
filed well and turned, possesses a 7 
traordmary hardness and firmness 
attains a high degree of Tjolish ■ ' if ^ 
malleable and forgeable. On the hV 
quality are founded applications vh\i 
were formerly never thought of v 
forged works pf art for decorative tJw 
poses. An alloy of 95 parts alu,^, 
and 5 parts copper is used here. Th 



technical working of bronze is not m i 
rially different from that of iron Th" 
metal, especially in a hot condition i> 
worked like iron on the anvil, with ham 
mer and chisel, _ only that the tempera" 
ture to be maintained in forging lies 
between dark and light cherry red. Jj 
the articles are not forged in one piece 
and the putting together of the separate 
parts becomes necessary, riveting or 
soldering has to be resorted to. Besides 
forging, aluminum bronze is well suited 
for embossing, which is not surprising con- 
sidering the high percentage of copper. 
After finishing the pieces, the metal can 
be toned in manifold ways by treatment 
with acid. 

II. — Copper, 89 to 98 per cent; alu- 
minum and nickel, 1 to S per cent. Alu- 
minum and nickel change in the opposite 
way, that is to say, in increasing the per- 
centage of nickel the amount of alu- 
minum is decreased by the equal quan- 
tity. It should be borne in mind that the 
best ratio is aluminum, 9.5 per cent; 
nickel, 1 to 1.5 per cent at_ most. In 
preparing the alloy a deoxidizing agent 
is added, viz., phosphorus to 0.5 per 
cent; magnesium to 1.5 per cent. I he 
phosphorus should always he added in 



the form of phosphorous copper or phos- 

V determined 
added to the 



phor aluminum of exactly determine 
percentage. It is first added to tne 
copper, then the aluminum and tne 
nickel, and finally the magnesium, tne 
last named at the moment of liquid"?, 
are admixed. . . g »n 

III. — A gold bronze, containing sv> 

5 per cent aluminum; s P e ^ifcolVr! 

than 



8.37 to 8.15. Handsome 



This alloy oxidizes less on heating 
copper and iron, and is theret * 
dally adapted for locomotive nreu 
and spindles, etc. . . nn an 

IV.— A steel bronze containing -u^ 
average 8.5 per cent aluminum l ^ t 
ing 1 per cent siJicium); s Pf cl l\,A]jghtlj 
7.7. Very ductile and tough, bin 
elastic; hence its use is excluc leu ^ 
with large demands upon ten. ^ forjD 
pressure, no permanent cil&n § hv ff ork 
must ensue. This is changed oy _ Js . 
ing, such as rolling, drawing, 



etc 



ALLOYS 



pecially useful where infrangibility is de- 
sired, as in machinery, ordnance, etc. 
At high, temperature this bronze loses its 
elasticity again. _ 

V. — This contains 8,5 per cent alu- 
minum and 11 to 2 per cent silicium. Its 
uS e is advisable in cases where the metal 
is to possess a good elasticity, even in 
the cast state, and to retain it after 
being worked in red heat. 

yj. — An acid bronze, containing 10 
per cent aluminum; specific gravity, 
7,65. Especially serviceable to resist 
oxidation and the action of acids. 

VII. — Diamond bronze, containing 

10 per cent aluminum and 2 per cent 
silicium. Specific gravity, 7.3. Very 
hard; of great firmness, but brittle. 

Art Bronzes. (See also Aluminum 
Bronzes and Japanese Bronzes under 
this title.) — I. — Copper, 84 parts; zinc, 

11 parts; tin, 5 parts. 

II. — Copper, 90 parts; zinc, 6 parts; 
tin, 2 parts; lead, 2 parts. 

III. — Copper, 65 parts; zinc, 30 parts; 
tin, 5 parts. 

IV. — Copper, 90 parts; tin, 5 parts; zinc, 
i parts; lead, 1 part. 

V. — Copper, 85 parts; zinc, 10 parts; 
tin, 3 parts; lead, 2 parts. 

_ VI. — Copper, 72 parts; zinc, 23 parts; 
tin, 3 parts; lead, 2 parts. 

■ Statuary Bronze. — Many of the an- 
tique statues were made of genuine 
bronze, which has advantages for this 
purpose, but has been superseded in 
modern times by mixtures of metals 
containing, besides copper and tin — the 
constituents of real bronze — a quantity 
of zinc, the alloy thus formed being 
really an intermediate product between 
bronze and brass. The reason for the 
use of such mixtures lies partly in the 
comparative cheapness of their produc- 
tion as compared with genuine bronze, 
and partly in the purpose for which the 
metal ls to be used. A thoroughly good 
statuary bronze must become thinly fluid 
m fusing, fill the molds out sharply, allow 
JJ b f n K easily worked with the file, and 
2 in j on tlie bc autiful green coating 
<*"cd patina, after being exposed to the 
air for a short time. 

genuine bronze, however strongly 
"«ated, does not become thin enough to 

difr° u u mo ? dK well > and dt is also 

f cult to obtain homogeneous castings 
flnH U " , Brass al one is also too thickly 
airi j * not hfLrd enou gh for the re- 
B« r t j ne chi5 eling or chasing of the 
arid V °. b J ect - . Alloys containing zinc 
fe „ n tm > \ n addition to copper, can be 
prepared m such a manner that they will 



become very thinly fluid 

nne castings which oin i_ 
with the file and'ehbd eaS T L b beT^' 
L°^ S ^ emt °,¥f-m 10to?8 



cent of 

of tin. In point 
bronze holds an 
between genuine 



and will give 

rke> 

e best pre 

zinc and fromTtoYper 

?1 hardness, statuai 
intermediate positioi 

being harder "a^ WffihaShe £SS 
but not so much so as the former 

. bince statuary bronze is usea » , 
cipally for artistic purposes, much d 
pends upon the color. This can be yariec 
from pale yellow to orange yellow 
slightly varying the content of tin 
zinc, which must, of course, still be kei 
between the limits given above Tc 
much tin makes the alloy brittle and ( 
ncult to chisel; with too much zinc, i 
the other hand, the warm tone of color 
lost, and the bronze does not acquire 
fine patina. 

The best proportions for statuar 
bronze are very definitely known at ti 
present day; yet it sometimes happei 
that large castings have not the rig! 
character. They are either defective i 
color, or they dc not take on a fine patim 
or they are difficult to chisel. Thes 
phenomena may be due to the use 
impure metals — containing oxides, iroi 
lead, etc.-^or to improper treatment 
the alloy in melting. With the m< 
careful work possible, there is a consit 
erable loss in melting — 3 per cent at tl 
very least, and sometimes as much as i 
This is due to the large proportion 
sdnc, and it is evident that, in const 
quence of it, the nature of the alloy wi 
be different from what might be expectec 
from the quantities of metals used in it" 
manufacture. 

It has been remarked that slight vai 
ations in composition quickly ehan« 
the color of the alloy. The following 
table gives a series of alloys of different 
colors," suitable for statuary bronze: 



Cop- 
pi er 



84.42 
84.00 
83.05 
83.00 
81.05 
81.00 
78.09 
73.58 
73.00 
70.36 
70.00 
65.95 



Zinc 

11.28 
11.00 
13.03 
12.00 
15.32 
15.00 



Tin 



Color 



4.30 Reddish yellow 
5.00 Orange red 
3.92 Orange red 
5.00 Orange red 
3.63 Orange yellow 
, ... .„ 4.00 Orange yellow 
18.47 3.44 Orange yellow 
Orange yellow 
Pale orange 
Pale yellow 
Pale yellow 
Pale yellow 



23.27 3.15 
23.00!4.00 
26.88:2.76 
27.00 3.00 
31.562.49 




68 



ALLOYS 



Perhaps the most satisfactory bronze 
rae Ult the alloy used in France .for more 
than a century. It contains 91.60 per 
cTnt of copper, 5.33 per cent of zinc 1.70 
ner cent ol tin, and 1.37 per cent of lead. 
Iom?what more sine is taken for articles 
to be gilded. 

Bismuth Bronze.— Copper, 52 parts; 
nickel, 30 parts; zinc, IS parts; lead, 5 
parts; bismuth, 1 part. metallic 
mirrors, lamp reflectors, etc. 

Gun Bronze.— See Phosphor Bronze 
under this title. 

Japanese Bronzes.— The formulas given 
below contain a large percentage of lead, 
which greatly improves the patina. 1 ne m- 
"ents and the ratio of their parts for ■ sev- 
1 sorts of modern Japanese bronze follow: 

I. — Copper, 81.62 per cent; tin, 4.61 
per cent; lead, 10.21 per cent. 

II. — Copper, 76.60 per cent; tin, 4.38 
per cent; lead, 11.88 per cent; zinc, 6.53 
per cent. 

III. — Copper, 88.55 per cent; tin, 2.49 
per cent; lead, 4.72 per cent; zinc, 3.20 
percent. 

Sometimes a little antimony is added 
just before casting, and such a composi- 
tion would be represented more nearly 
by this formula 1 . 

' IV. — Copper, 68.25 per cent; tin, 5.47 
per cent; zinc, 8.88 per cent; lead, 17.06 
per cent; antimony, 0.34 per cent. 

For imitation Japanese bronze, see 
Plating under Bronzing. 

Machine Bronze. — I. — Copper, 89 per 
cent; tin, 11 per cent. 

II. — Copper, 80 per cent; tin, 16 per 
cent. 

Phosphor Bronze. — Phosphor bronze 
is bronze containing varying amounts 
of phosphorus, from a few hundredths 
of 1 per cent to 1 or 2 per cent. Bronze 
containing simply copper and tin is very 
liable to be defective from the 



xx^^ presence 

of oxygen, sulphur, or occluded gases. 
Oxygen causes the metal to he snnn™ 
hut an 

porosity, " Oxygen gets into the 



vAygeii causes tiie metal to be spongy 
and weak. Sulphur and occluded gases 
cause porosity. Oxygen gets into the 
metal by absorption from the air. It can 
be eliminated by adding to the metal 
something which combines with the oxy- 
gen and then fluxes off. Such deoxidizers 
are zinc, antimony, aluminum, man- 

Bill n „ ,1 „1 l ^ . 



u-iauujuuj, »iuminum, man- 
ganese, siheon, and phosphorus. Sul- 
phur and occluded gases can be elimi- 
nated by melting the metal, exposing it 
the air, and letting it thus absorb soi 
oxvceri. wli^u *u i .i . . 



oxygen, which then burns the sulphur 
mnJ^'K Th J e J . ox yg en can then be re- 
moved by adding one of the above 
mention^ deoxidizers. 
use " p * 



m-ww, aeoximzers. The important 
OI phosphorus m bronze is, there- 



fore, to remove oxygen and also i a(ImiM 
ly to destroy occluded gas and aiUphlJ* 



A bronze is sometimes made Jig 




form for use, and the process of ffi , 1 
facture is as follows: Ninety Do S" 
of copper are melted under charcoal- 
a No. 70 crucible, which holds aboit 



200 pounds of metal when full-" i, 
pounds of tin are added and the metal ' 
allowed to become hot. The crucible k 
then removed from the furnace and 7 
pounds of phosphorus are introduced 
in the following manner: A 3-gallon 
stone jar s> half full of dilute solution 
of blue vitriol, is weighed. Then the 
weights are increased 7 pounds, and 
phosphorus in sticks about 4 inches 
long is added till the scales balance 
again. The phosphorus is left in this 
solution half an hour or longer, the phos- 
phorus being given a coating of copper, 
so that it may be dried and exposed to 
the air without igniting. Have ready 
a pan about 30 inches square and 6 
inches deep, containing about 2 inches of 
"water. Over the water is a wire netting, 
which is laid loose on ledges or supports 
along the inner sides of the pan. On the 
netting is blotting paper, and on this the 
phosphorus is laid to dry when taken 
out of the blue-vitriol solution. The pan 
also has a lid which can be put down in 
case of ignition of the phosphorus. 

The phosphorus is now readj; for 
introduction into the metal. This 13 
done by means of a cup-shaped mstru* 
ment called a retort or phosphorizer. 
One man holds the retort on the run of 
the crucible in a horizontal position. A 
second man ta kes about three pieces 01 
phosphorus and throws them into we 
retort- The first man then immediately 
plunges the mouth of the retort beiov 
the surface of the metal before the pjoj 
phorus has a chance to fall or nW • 
Of course the phosphorus immediate!, 
melts and also begins to volatilize, 
the phosphorus comes in contact ^ 
the metal, it combines with it. n( j 3 
process is continued till all the ' " . ta i, 
--\ into the met"" 



of phosphorus has been put into t a " . , t 
The metal is then poured into slaw ^ 
3 inches by 4 inches by 1 mcfl +Tj c kness 
metal is so hard that a greater tm<. 
would make it difficult to brca* fcJ 
When finished, the metal contai"^ 
analysis, 6 per cent of phos phor us. ^ fl 
phosphorus is to be added to 
little of this hardener is employ -.^ it3 
Copper is a soft, ductile metal. ^ 
melting point at about 2,000 ** 



ALLOYS 



t e n copper has the marked property of 
absorbing various gases. It is for this 
reason that it is so difficult to make sound 
castings of clear copper. Molten copper 
combines readily with the oxygen of the 
B Jr, forming oxide of copper^ which dis- 
solves in the copper and mixes homo- 
geneously with it. 

A casting- made from sticn metal would 
be very spongy. The bad effect of oxy- 
gen is intended to be overcome by adding 
zinc to the extent of 1 per cent or more. 
This result can be much more effectively 
attained by the use of aluminum, man- 
ganese, or phosphorus. The action of 
§iese substances is to combine with the 
oxygen, and as the product formed sepa- 
rates and goes to the surface, the metal 
is left in a sound condition. Aluminum 
and manganese deoxidize copper and 
bronze very effectively, and the oxide 
formed goes to the surface as a scum. 
When a casting is made from such metal, 
the oxide or scum, instead of freeing it- 
self from the casting perfectly, generally 
remains in the top part of the casting 
mixed with the metal, as a fractured 
surface will show. Phosphorus deox- 
idizes copper, and the oxide formed 
leaves the metal in the form of a gas, so 
that a casting made from such metal 
shows a clean fracture throughout, al- 
though the metal is not so dense as when 
aluminum or manganese is used. 

Copper also has the property of ab- 
sorbing or occluding carbon monoxide. 
But the carbonic oxide thus absorbed 
is in a different condition from the oxy- 
gen absorbed. When oxygen is ab- 
sorbed by copper, the oxygen combines 
chemically with the copper and loses its 
own identity as a gas. But when coal 
gas is absorbed by the copper, it keeps 
W Physical identity and simply ex- 
ists in the copper in a state of solution. 
g« natural waters, such as lake water, 
ft - e - r w ater, spring water, etc., contain 
«w . m solution or occlusion. When such 
IS? f f 0oled and fro7 ' en > just at the 
MM \ dian ^ ln g fr om the liquid to the 
ia state, the dissolved gas separates 
enL , ri ? S - air bubbles, which remain 
Slu 8 \ d - i m . the ice - The carbonic 
- ae whlcl1 is dissolved or occluded in 



Co 



PPer acts in exactly the same way. 
man™ gen ? cts in exactly the same 
WaT f canonic oxide. Sulphur also 
Sulph-- ~- i 0 - 1 Upo1 ^ ?°PP er an d bronze. 



tae£l r * COmbines wita copper and oth< 
When f0 , rmm e sulphide of copper, efr 
Wsi.lT c °PPer or bronze contaii 
absoTK P c °mes in contact with air 
CQmlTJ; Soln ? , ox ysen» and this in turn 
Chines with the sulphur present, 



lite copp e ^L a t rd nS?n 2 "J™^ 

soft, vet when mixedS i K ^ 
metal When Wse^X", * 
molten state, the copper and ' 
tin alloyed to crys?5Ky 
The quicker the cooling occurs Tb7 Tl.' 
separation will there &, and a fe th 
fracture will be more homogeneous in ap! 
pearance. a i' 

m Gun bronze contains copper and tii 
in the proportion of 9 or 10 parts of 
copper to 1 of tin. This is the metal 
used when an ordinary bronze castine 
is wanted. A harder bronze is copper 
and tin m the ratio of 6 to 1. This is 
often used as a bearing metal. Wher 
either of these metals is to be turned ii 
the machine shop, they should contaii 
about 3 per cent of lead, which will mah 
them work very much better, but it alsc 
decreases their tensile strength. Bear 
ing metal now generally contains abou, 
10 per cent of lead, with copper and tin 
in varying ratios. The large percentage 
of lead is put in that the metal may wear 
away slower. Lead, although a metal 
having properties similar to tin, acts en- 
tirely different toward copper. Copper 
and tin have a good deal of affinity foj 
each other, but copper and lead shoi 
no attraction at all for each other. Cop 
per and tin mix in all proportions^ but 
copper and lead mix only to a very limit 
ed extent. About 3 per cent of lead cai 
be mixed with copper. With bronzt 
about 15 i>er cent to 20 per cent of leac 
can be mixed. In bearing bronze th< 
lead keeps its own physical properties, 
so that the constituent lead melts long 
before the metal attains a red heat. It 
sometimes happens when a bearing runs 
warm that the lead actually sweats out 
and forms pimples on the metal. Or, 
sometimes, in remelting a bearing bronze 
casting the lead may be seen to drop 
out while the metal is warming up. All 
of these metals, however, should contain 
something to flux or deoxidize them, 
such as zinc, manganese, aluminum, 
silicon, antimony, or phosphorus. 

The phosphor bronze bearing metal m 
vogue has the following compositi on : Cop- 
lev. 79.7 per cent; tin, 10 per cent; lead. 



r.ef. 79.7 per cent; on, iw P"'-^'. 
?o5er cen?; and phosphorus 0 8 pel -cent. 

Melt 140 pounds of copper m aWo. 
7ft not covering with charcoal. When 
cop?er i S C all melted add m pounds of 
tin to 171 pounds of lead, and allow the 



meS lo^eoomrsufficiently warm, bu* 



nt anv hotter than is needed. Then 
dd iSVunds of "hardener" (made M 
ZiouSj described) and s*r well- R - 



r o C ve fr7m Turna™/.kim off the char 
coal cool the metal with gates to as low 
a temperature as is consistent with get- 
ting P good casting, stir weU again, and 
poifr. The molds for this kind of work 
are faced with plumbago. 

There are several firms that make 



are 



phosphor-bronze bearings with a com- 
position similar to the above one, and 
most of them, or perhaps all, make it by 
melting the metals and then charging 
with phosphorus to the extent of 0. i to 
1 per cent. But some metal from all 
brands contains occluded gas. bo tnat 
after such metal is cast (in about two 
minutes or so) the metal will ooze or 
sweat out through the gate, and such a 
casting will be found to be porous. But 
not one such experience with metal made 
as described above has yet been found. 

This practical point should be heeded, 
viz., that pig phosphor bronze should be 
brought to the specifications that the 
metal should have shrunk in the ingot 
mold in cooling, as shown by the con- 
cave surface of the upper side, and that 
it should make a casting in a sand mold 
without rising in the gate after being 
poured. 

Iu bearing metal, occluded gas is very 
objectionable, because the gas, in trying 
to free itself, shoves the very hard cop- 
per-tin compound (which has a low 
melting point and remains liquid after 
the copper has begun to set) into spots, 
and thus causes hard spots in the metal. 

Phosphorus is very dangerous to han- 
dle, and there is great risk from fire with 
it, so that many would not care to handle 
the phosphorus itself. But phosphor 
copper containing 5 per cent of phos- 
phorus, and phosphor tin containing 2 to 
7 per cent of phosphorus, and several 
other such alloys can be obtained in the 
market It may be suggested to those 
who wish to make phosphor bronze, but 
do not want to handle phosphorus itself, 
to make it by using the proper amounts 
of one of these high phosphorus alloys. 
In using phosphorus it is only necessary 
to use enough to thoroughly deoxidize 
the metal, say 0.3 per cent. More than 
tins will make the metal harder, but not 
any sounder. 

Phosphor bronze is not a special kind 
or alloy, but any bronze can be made 
into phosphor bronze; it is, in fact, sim- 
ply a deoxidized bronze, produced under 
treatment with phosphorus compounds. 

Although the effect of phosphorus in 
improving the quality of bronze has been 



known for more than fifty years it 1 
of late that the mode for p re pari n V Jr* 
phor bronze has been perfected I 
now manufactured in many local V is 
Besides its action in reducing the r,-j S ' 
dissolved in the alloy, the phosphor? 
exerts another very material influ^ 
upon the properties of the bronze 
ordinary bronzes consist of mixture 
which the copper is really the only en"* 
tallized constituent, since the tin cr 
tallizes with great difficulty. A.s a e^" 
sequence of this dissimilarity in the 
ture of the two metals, the alloy i s 
so solid as it would be if both were crys 
tallized. The phosphorus causes the 
tin to crystallize, and the result is a more 
homogeneous mixture of the two metals. 

If enough phosphorus is added, so 
that its presence can be delected in the 
finished bronze, the latter may be con- 
sidered an alloy of crystallized phosphor 
tin with copper, If the content of phos- 
phor is still more increased, a part of the 
copper combines with the phosphorus, 
and the bronze then contains, besides 
copper and tin, compounds of crystal- 
lized copper phosphide with phosphide 
of tin. The strength and tenacity of the 
bronze are not lessened by a larger 
amount of phosphorus, and its hardness 
is considerably increased. Most phos- 
phor bronzes are equal in this respect to 
the best steel, and some even surpass it 
in general properties. 

The phosphorus is added to the bronze 
in the form of copper phosphide or phos- 
phide of tin, the two being sometimes 
used together. They must be specially 
prepared for this purpose, and the best 
methods will be here given. Copper 
phosphide is prepared by heating a mix- 
ture of 4 parts of superphosphate of lime, 
2 parts of granulated copper, and 1 pa« 
of finely pulverized coal m a crucible at* 
temperature not too high. 1 h e me " t 
copper phosphide, containing 14 per ceuj 
of phosphorus, separates on the Do 
of the crucible. , , n_ ws - 

Tin phosphide is prepared as fo loj- 
Place a bar of zinc in an aqueous soiw 
of tin chloride. The tin will be separj, 1 ^ 
in the form of a sponge-like mass, 
lect it, and put it into a crucible, 
the bottom of which sticks of P^. 0S t: e htIy 
have been placed. Press the tin we^ 
inlo the crucible, and expose to » 8^ 
heat. Continue the heating untu 



of burning phosphorus are ^ 
observed on the crucible. -i Jlt ^ oarS cly 
phosphide, in the form ot a ^ 
crystalline mass, tin-white in c \>] e , 
be found on the bottom of t&£ c ^ 
To prepare the phosphor woi 



ALLOYS 



Hoy to be treated is melted in the usual 
* , and small pieces of the copper phos- 

hide and tin phosphide are added. 
P phosphor bronze, properly prepared, 
, nearly the same melting point as that 
f ordinary bronze. In cooling, how- 
ever, it has the peculiarity of passing 
Htrectly from the liquid to the solid state, 
without first becoming thickly fluid. In 
ni elted state it retains a perfectly bright 
urface, while ordinary bronze in this 
condition is always covered with a thin 
film of oxide. 

If phosphor bronze is Kept ior a long 
time at the melting point, there is not 
au y loss of tin, but the amount of phos- 
phorus is slightly diminished._ 

The most valuable properties of phos- 
phor bronze are its extraordinary te- 
nacity and strength. It can be rolled, 
laramered, and stretched cold, and its 
strength is nearly doable that of the best 
ordinary bronze. It is principally used 
in cases where great strength and power 
of resistance to outward influences are re- 
quired, as, for instance, in objects which 
are to be exposed to the action of sea water. 

Phosphor bronze containing about 4 
jer cent of tin is excellently well adapted 
or sheet bronze. With not more than 5 
jer cent of tin, it can be used, forged, 
or firearms. Seven to 10 per cent of 
tin gives the greatest hardness, and such 
Dronze is especially suited to the manu- 
facture of axle bearings, cylinders for 
steam fire engines, cogwheels, and, in 
general, for parts of machines where 
|eat strength and hardness are required. 
3 hosphor bronze, if exposed to the air, 
soon becomes covered with a beautiful, 
closely adhering patina, and is therefore 
well adapted to purposes of art. The 
amount of phosphorus added varies 
from 0.25 to 2.5 per cent, according to 
.purpose of the bronze. The com- 
position of a number of kinds of phos- 
phor bronze is given below: 



Cop- 
per 



Tin 



^ 85 
III 

IV.I77.8S 
V.172.50 
VI.|73.50 



Zinc 



Lead 



VIII. 
IX. 

X. 
XI. 



74.50 
83.50 
90.34 
90.86 
94.71 



9.85 3.77 
4-15 
4-15 8-20 
11.00 7.65 

8.00 17.00 

6.00 19.00 
11.00 11.00 

8.00 8.00 

8.90 

8.50 

4.39 



0.62 
4-15 
4-15 



Iron 



trs. 



Phos- 
pho- 
rus 



0.05 

0.5-3 

.25-2 



0.76 

0.196 

0.053 



61 

haL^a^oftT/S F ^ 111 *« 
VIII for railroad pnrpL^Tv 88 ' 1 V A* 

Steel Bronze.— Copper, 60; f em 
manganese (containing 70 to 80 per cent 
manganese), 40; zinc, 15. y cut 

Silicon Bronze.— Silicon, similarly tc 
phosphorus, acts as a deoxidizing as?e 
and the bronzes produced under « 
influence are very ductile and elastic 
not rust, and are very strong. On' at 
count of these qualities silicon bronze 
is much used for telegraph and telephone 
wires. The process of manufacture 
similar to that of phosphor bronze; |1 
silicon is used in the form of copper sil 
cide. Some good silicon bronzes 
as follows: 

1 11 

Copper 97.12 97.37 

Tin 1.14 l.Sfc 

Zinc l.io 1,27 

Silicon 0.05 0.07 

Sun Bronze. — The alloy called sui 
bronze contains 10 parts of aluminui 
30 to 50 parts of copper, and 40 to 
parts of cobalt. The mixture known bj 
the name of metalline has 25 per cent 
aluminum, 30 of copper, 10 of iron, 
35 of cobalt. These alloys melt at a poii 
approaching the melting point of coppt 
are tenacious, ductile, and very hard. 

Tobin Bronze. — This alloy is nearly 
similar in composition and properties 
Delta metal. 

I II III IV 

Copper. .. 61.203 59.00 61.20 82.65 
Zinc ..... 27.440 38.40 37.14 3.2* 
Tin . 0.906 2.16 0.90 12.4( 

Iron 0.180 0.11 0.18 0.K 

Lead 0.359 0.31 0.35 2.U 

Silver &J 

Phospho- ) 0.005 

rus } 

The alloy marked IV is sometimes 
called deoxidized bronze. ^ 

Violet-colored bronze is 50 parts cop- 
per and 50 parts antimony. 

CADMIUM ALLOYS: 

See also Fusible Alloys. 

Lipowitz's Alloy.-I-^This alloy * 
com cosed of cadmium. 3 parts; tin, 4, 
bismuth 15°; and lead, 8.. The simplest 
method of preparation is to heat the 
ml afi; in smafl pieces, m a org 
stirring constantly, aa soon as fusion 



62 



ALLOYS 



Wins with a stick of hard wood. The 
sSgTs important, in order to prevent 
tte meUls, wW specific gravity jam* 
considerably, from being d^ted ^ 
la vers The al oy softens at 140° F. and 
X completely \t 168" F. The color 
is silvery white, with a luster like polished 
silver, and the metal can be bent, ham- 
mered, and turned. These properties 
would make it valuable for many pur- 
poses where a beautiful appearance is ot 
Special importance, but on account oi 
the considerable amount of _ cadmium 
and bismuth which it contains, it is 
rather expensive, and therefore limited 
in use. Casts of small animals, insects, 
lizards, etc., have been prepared from 
it, which were equal in sharpness to 
the best galvanoplastic work. _ Plaster of 
Paris is poured over the animal to be- 
east, and after sharp drying, the animal 
is removed and the mold filled up with 
Lipowitz's metal. The mold is placed 
in a vessel of water, and by heating to 
the boiling point the metal is melted and 
deposited in the finest impressions of the 
mold. 

This alloy is most excellent for solder- 
ing tin, lead, Britannia metal, and nickel, 
being especially adapted to the last two 
metals on account of its silver-white 
color. But here again its costliness pre- 
vents its general use, and cheaper alloys 
possessing the same properties have been 
sought. In cases where the silver-white 
color and the low melting point are not 
of the first importance, the alloys given 
below may very well be used in the place 
of it. 

II. — Cadmium alloy (melting point, 
170° P.): Cadmium, 2 parts; tin, 3; lead, 
11; bismuth, 16. 

HI- — Cadmium alloy (melting point, 
167° P.): Cadmium, 10 parts; tin, 3; Lead, 
8; bismuth, 8. 

Cadmium alloys (melting point, 203" 
*.): 

IV V 

Cadmium... i \ 

Tin g q 

Bismuth ' [ g 5 



VI 

1 parts 

1 « 

2 « 



ifiX w" Very fusible all °y. melting at 
\»»A a " '^^posed of tin, 1 or 2 parts; 
1 or 2 ° r blSmuth ' 4 or 15; cadmium, 

HO^anr^? 0 ^^^? 7 . melts te tween 
1«- 1 a 81,5 P - 11 13 composed of 

Stent ' a 13 malleable to a certain 

j ^;- C ^mium alloy (melting point, 
179.5 P.): Cadmium, 1 part; lead, 6 



park; bismuth, 7. This, l ike t , 
ceding, can be used for soldering i P t e ' 
water. & 111 hat 

S. — Cadmium alloy (melt!™ 
300° P.) : Cadmium, 2 parts; tinVl 0 ^ 
2. This is an excellent soft solder VrtT* 
melting point about 86 degrees beWX* 
of lead and tin alone. lua t 

Cadmium Alloys with Gold, SiIvpt « * 
Copper. -I -Gold, 750 parts; aiSSSJ 
parts; cadmium, 84 parts. A maUeawI 
and ductile alloy of green color. 

II— Gold, 750 parts; silver, 125 p art „. 
and cadmium, 125 parts. Malleable and 
ductile alloy of yellowish-green hue. 

III. — Gold, 716 parts; silver," m 
parts; copper, 97 parts; and cadmium 
43 parts. Likewise a malleable and 
ductile alloy of a peculiar green shade. 
All these alloys are suitable for plating* 
As regards their production, each must 
be carefully melted together from its 
ingredients in a covered crucible lined 
with coal dust, or in a graphite crucible. 
Next, the alloy has to be rernelted in a 
graphite crucible with charcoal (or rosin 
powder) and borax, _ If, in spite thereof, 
a considerable portion of the cadmiuin 
should have evaporated, the allov must 
be re-fused once more with an addition of 
cadmium. 

ALLOYS FOR CASTING COINS, ME- 
DALLIONS, ETC. 
Alloys which fulfill the requirements of 
the medalist, and capable, therefore, of 
reproducing all details, are the following: 

I II 

Tin 3 6 parts 

Lead 13 8 " 

Bismuth 6 W " 

III.— A soft alloy suitable to take im- 
pressions of woodcuts, coins, metals, en- 
gravings, etc., and which must melt at 
a low degree of heat, is made out of bis- 
muth, 3 parts; tin, 1} parts; lead, -* 
parts; and worn-out type, 1 part. 

Acid-proof Alloy.— This alloy is chw> 
acterized by its power of resisting 
action of acids, and is therefore espeaan? 
adapted to making cocks, P 1 ? 6 ,^: c] -j 
which are to come in contact wit a 
fluids. It is composed of copper,^^ 



lead, tin, iron, nickel, cobalt, and » * 
timony, in the following proportion • 

te::::::::::::::: 

11 

Iron °- 4S 

Nickel I qM 
Cobalt [ -g 
Antimony 0 




ALLOYS 



Albata Metal. — Copper, 40 parts; zinc, 
32 parts; and nickel, 8 parts. 

Alfenide Metal.— Copper, 60 parts; 
zinc, 30; nickel, 10; traces of iron. 

Bath Metal. — This alloy is used es- 
pecially iu England for the manufacture 
of teapots, and is very popular owing to 
the fine white color it possesses. It 
takes a high polish, and articles made 
from this alloy acquire in the course of 
time, upon only being rubbed with a 
white cloth, a permanent silver luster. 
The composition of Bath metal is cop- 
per, 55 parts; zinc, 45 parts. 

Baudoin Metal. — This is composed of 
72 parts of copper, 10.6 of nickel, 1.8 of 
cobalt, 1 of zinc; i per cent of aluminum 
may be added. 

CASTING COPPER: 

Macht's Yellow Metal. — L — This alloy 
consists of 33 parts of copper and 25 of 
zinc. It has a dark golden-yellow color, 
great tenacity, and can be forged at a 
red heat, properties which make it es- 
pecially suitable for fine eastings. 

EC.— Yellow.— Copper, 67 to 70 parts; 
zinc, 33 to 30 parts. 

Ill- — Red. — Copper, 82 parts; zinc, 
18 parts. 

Copper Arsenic, — Arsenic imparts to 
copper a very fine white color, and makes 
it very hard and brittle. Before Ger- 
man silver was known, these alloys were 
sometimes used for the manufacture of 
such cast articles as were not to come in 
' contact with iron. When exposed to the 
^ air, they soon lose their whiteness and 
f i-° n a brownish shade. On account 
|l this, as well as the poisonous character 
°1 t u e arsen i c > ^ey are very little used 
at the present time. Alloys of copper 
and arsenic are best prepared by pressing 
nrmly mto a crucible a mixture of 70 
j Parts of copper and SO of arsenic (the 
, c °pper to be used in the form of fine 
•shavings) and fusing this mixture in a 
furnace with a good draught, under a 
, cover of glass. b 

Copper Iron.— The alloys of copper 
j and iron are little used in the industries 
uLl ■ present day, but it would seem 

1E2 J r Uer tlmes the y were frequently 
prepared for the purpose of giving a con- 

Ifor' de gree of hardness to copper; 

ItJn antu l ue casts, consisting princi- 

iSf,- c °PP er » we regularly find large 

IrE* 3 , of lron > which leads to the sup- 

|ttUy 1 they were added intention- 

These alloys, when of a certain com- 



tity of the iron the hZlnt£ g^SSS" 
but the sohdity i s lessened. A conS 
and iron alloy of eonsideraHeltreSh 
and at the same time ve S )l 
made of copper,. 66 parts ;V on , 34 
These alloys acqmre, on exposure to air" 
an ugly color inclining toward black! 
cre^oT e arl heref0re f da P^d f or" arfe 

Copper mckel. T A. Morrell, of Ne* 

York, nas obtained a patent on a nickel- 
copper alloy which he claims is valu- 
able on account of .its noncorrosive 
qualities, therefore making it desirable 
tor ships, boiler tubes, and other uses 
where the metal comes much in contact 
with water. The process of making the 
metal is by smelting ore containing sul- 
phide of nickel and copper, and b es era- 
en zi rig the resultant matter. This is 
calcined in order to obtain the nickel 
and copper in the form of oxides. Tht 
latter are reduced in reverberating fur 
nace with carbon, or the like, so as to 
produce an alloy which preferably con- 
tains 2 parts of nickel and 1 part of 
copper. 

Delta Metal. — An alloy widely used for 
making parts of machinery, and also 
for artistic purposes, is the so-called 
Delta metal. This is a variety of brass 
hardened with iron; some manufacturers 
add small quantities of tin and lead; 
also, in some cases, nickel. The follow- 
ing analysis of Delta metal (from the fac- 
tory at Dilsseldorf) will show its usus 1 
composition: 





I 


II 


I III 


IV 


V 


Copper. . . . 


55.94 
41.61 


55.80 
40.07 


55.82 
41.41 


54.22 
42.25 


58.65 
38.95 




0.72 


1.82 


0.76 


1.10 


0.67 




0.87 


1.28 


0.86 


0.99 


1.62 


Manganese 
Nickel 

Phosphorus 


0.81 
tra- 
ces. 
0.013 


0.96 
tra- 
ces. 
0.011 


1.38 
0.06 

tra- 
ces. 


1.09 
0.16 

0.02 


o.ii 

•t w » r 



I is cast. II hammered, III rolled, 
and IV hot-stamped metal.. Uelta 
metal is produced by heating zinc very 
strongly in crucibles (to about 1600. l<->. 
and adding ferromanganese or spiegel- 
eisen," producing an alloy of 9o P« cent 
zinc antf 5 per cent of iron. Copper and 
brass and a very small amount of copper 
mosphate are also added. 



64 



ALLOYS 



Gong Metal. — A sonorous metal for 
^vmhaTs fronts, and tam-tams consists 
of ?0 parts of copper with 25 parts tin 
finite the piece after it is cast and plunge 
it into cold water immediately. 

Production of Minargent.— This alloy 
consists of copper 500 parts; mckel 
S50; tungsten, 25, and aluminum,... Ihe 
metal obtained possesses a handsome 
white color and greatly resembles silver. 

Minofor .— The so-called Minofor metal 
is composed of copper, tin, antimony, zinc, 
and iron in the following proportions: 



II 
4 
66 
20 
9 
1 



Copper 3.26 

Tin 67.53 

Antimony 17.00 

Zinc 8.04 

Iron 

Minargent and Minofor are sometimes 
used in England for purposes in which th« 
ordinary Britannia metal, 2 parts tin and 
1 part antimony, might equally well be 
employed; the latter surpasses both of 
them in beauty of color, but they are, on 
the other hand, harder. 

Retz Alloy. — This alloy, which resists 
the corrosive action of alkalies and acids, 
is composed of 15 parts of copper, 2.34 
of tin, 1.82 of lead, and 1 of antimony. 
It can be utilized in the manufacture of 
receivers, for which porcelain and ebo- 
nite are usually employed. 

Ruoltz Metal. — This comprises 20 

?arts of silver, 50 of copper, 30 of nickel, 
'hese proportions may, however, vary. 
Tissier's Metal. — This alloy contains 
arsenic, is of a beautiful tombac red 
color, and very hard. Its composition 
varies a great deal, but the peculiar alloy 
which gives the name is composed of 
copper, 97 parts; zinc, 2 parts; arsenic, 
1 or 2. It may be considered a brass 
with a very high percentage of copper, 
and hardened by the addition of arsenic. 
It is sometimes used for axle bearings, 
but other alloys are equally suitable for 
this purpose, and are to be preferred on 
account of the absence of arsenic, which 
is always dangerous. 

FILE ALLOYS. — Many copper-tin al- 
loys are employed for the making of tiles 
which, in distinction from the steel files, 
are designated composition files. Such 
alloys have the following compositions: 

Geneva Composition Files. — 

P I II 

popper 64.4 62 

T , m 18.0 20 

£ in c lo.O 10 

Lead..., 7.Q g 



Vogel's Composition Files.—. 



Copper, 
Tin.... 
Zinc. . . 
Lead. . , 
VI. — Another 



III 

57.0 
. 28.5 
. 78.0 
. 7.0 
alloy for 



IV 

61.5 
31.0 

si 



V 

73.0 
19.0 
8.0 
8.0 



files is copper, 8 parts- tin"/ 2; 2°i Slt, °* 
lead, 1— fused under a cover of borax 

EASILY FUSIBLE OR PLASTIC at 
LOYS. AL - 

(These have a fusing point usualU 
below 300° F.) SUall y 
(See also Solders.) 

I. Rose's Alloy. — Bismuth, 2 parts . 
lead, 1 part; tin, 1 part. Melting nrW 
200° F. & y X> 

II. Darcet Alloy. — This is composed of 
8 parts of bismuth, 5 of lead, and 3 of tin. 
It melLs at 176° F. To impart greater 
fusibility, -jV part of mercury is added; 
the fusing is then lowered to 149° F. 

III. — Newton alloy melts at 212° F., 
and is composed of 5 parts of bismuth, 2 
of lead, and 3 of tin. 

IV. — Wood's Metal.— 

Tin £ parts 

Lead 4 parts 

Bismuth 5 to 8 parts 

This silvery, fine-grained alloy fuses 
between 151° and 162° F., and is ex- 
cellently adapted to soldering. 

V. — Bismuth, 7 parts; lead, 6 parts; 
cadmium, 1 part. Melting point, 180° F. 

VI. — Bismuth, 7 to 8 parts; lead, 4; 
tin, 2; cadmium, 1 to 2. Melting point, 
149° to 160° F. 

Other easily fusible alloys : 

VII VIII IX 

Lead 1 « 3 

Tin 1 f $ 

Bismuth 1 * O .,,o 

Melting Point.... 258° F. 283° 311 

Fusible Alloys for Electric Installa- 
tions.— These alloys are employed J 
electric installations as current inre 
rupters. Serving as conductors ; on 
short length of circuit, they melt as so^_ 
as the current becomes too str ° n S: „f 
lowing is the composition or soxo 
these alloys 

' Cft* 




These alloys are. prepared by melting 
*he lead in a stearine bath and adding 
successively, and during the cooling, 
first, the cadmium; second, the bismuth; 
third, the tin. It is absolutely necessary 
to proceed in this manner, since these 
mpt'ds fuse at temperatures ranging 
from 850° F. (for lead), to 551° F. (for 
tin)- 

Fusible Safety Alloys for Steam 
Boilers. — 



L. 
II.. 

III. . 

IV. . 

v.. 

VI.. 
VII.. 
VIII. . 

IX.. 
X.. 
XL. 



Bis- 
muth 



Lead 


Zinc 


Melting 
point 


Atmos. 
pres- 
sure 


5 


3 


212° F. 


1 


8 


4 


235° F. 


1.5 


8 


3 


253° F. 


2 


10 


8 


266° F. 


2.5 


12 


8 


270° F. 


3 


16 


14 


280° F. 


3.5 


1G 


12 


285° F. 


4 


22 


24 


309° F. 


5 


32 


36 


320° F. 


C 


32 


28 


330° F. 


7 


30 


24 


340° F. 


8 



Lipowitz Metal. — This amalgam is pre- 
pared as follows: Melt in a dish, cad- 
mium, 3 parts, by weight; tin, 4 parts; 
bismuth, 15 parts; and lead, 8 parts, 
adding to the^ alloy, while still in fusion, 
2 parts of quicksilver previously heated 
to about 212° F. The amalgamation 
proceeds easily and smoothly. The 
liquid mass in the dish, which should 
be taken from the fire immediately upon 
the introduction of the mercury, is stirred 
until the contents solidify. While Lipo- 
witz alloy softens already at 140° F. and 
fuses perfectly at 158°, the amalgam has 
a still lower fusing rioint. which lies 
around 143?° F 
Thi 



Ihis amalgam is excellently adapted 
tor the production of impressions of 
various objects of nature, direct im- 
pressions of leaves, and other delicate 
p . a [ ts of plants having been made with its 
am which, in point of sharpness, are 
equal to the best plaster casts and have 
* very pleasing appearance. The anrnl- 
^ ai n hag a s il V e r -white color and a 
f. ne gloss. It is perfectly constant 
" atrn °spheric influences. This amal- 

t u ls ° been used with & nod suc " 
anH u making of small statuettes 

t^-ti ^ wIlic h are hollow and can be 
siti y ° r hronz ed by electro-depo- 
uon. The production of small statues 
i Wi UCCessEullv ^rried out by making a 
I b ° u ow gypsum mold of the articles to 
I c cast and heating the mold evenly to 



sides all over The shaking jKdb 
continued until it is certain tlfatthe amal 
solidified. When the mo\ 



jam has 
las cooled 



ar 

e 



off it i s taken apart i 
the seams removed by means of a shar 
knife If the operation is carried o 
correctly, a chasing of the cast mass bl 
comes unnecessary, since the alloy fill 
out the finest depressions of the rnol 
with the greatest sharpness. 

Amalgam for Plaster.— Tin, 1 pa 
bismuth, 1 part; mercury, 1 part. M 
the bismuth and the tin together, a 
when the two metals are in fusion ad 
the mercury while stirring. For us 
rub up the amalgam with a little white 
egg and brush like a varnish on th 
plaster articles. 

Plastic Metal Composition. — I. Coppe 
oxide is reduced by means of hydroge 
or copper sulphate by boiling a solutio 
of the same in water with some zinc filin 
in order to obtain entirely pure coppe 
Of the copper powder obtained in this ma 
ner, 20, 30, or 36 parts, by weight, accor 
ing to the degree of hardness desired fo 
the composition (the greater the quanti 
of copper used the harder will the compos 
tion become), are thoroughly moistene 
in a cast-iron or porcelain mortar wit 
sulphuric acid of 1.85 specific gravit 
70 parts, by weight, of mercury are the 
added to this paste, the whole being co~ 
stantly stirred. When all the copp 
has been thoroughly amalgamated wit 
the mercury, the sulphuric acid is washe 
out again with boiling water, and in 1 
hours after it has become cold the com 
position will be so hard that it canb 
polished. It is impervious to the actio 
of dilute acids, alcohol, ether, and boil 
ing water. It contains the same speeib 
gravity, alike in the soft or the hard con- 
dition. When used as a cement, it ca 
at any time be rendered soft and plastic 
in the following manner: If a PP. Jie <? 
while hot and plastic to the deoxidized 
surfaces of two pieces of metal, thes 
latter will unite so firmly that in about 1 
or 12 hours the metal may be subjecte 
to any mechanical process. ine P ro -. 
erties of this composition render j 
very useful for various purposes, and l 
forms a most effective cement for fin 
me£l articles which cannot be soldered 

in n e _Bi S muth, 5.B parts; lead, S; tin, 

1 III. Alloy d'Homburg. — Bismuth, 



66 

S parts; lead, 3; tin, 3. , This alloy is 
fusible at 251° P.. and is of a silvery 
white. It is employed for reproductions 
of medals. . , 

IV Alloy Valentine Rose.— Bismutft, 
4to6"parts; lead, 2 parts; tin, 2 to 3 parts. 
This alloy fuses at 212° to 250° F. 

V Alloy Rose pere. — Bismutii, » 
parte; lead, 2; tin, 2. This alloy fuses 
at 199° F. 

The remainder are plastic alloys for 
reproducing cuts, medals, coins etc.: 

VI. — Bismuth, 4 parts; lead, 2 parts; 

tin, 1 part. 

VII. — Bismuth, 3 parts; lead, 3 parts; 

tl 'vni ? — Bismuth, 4 parts; lead, 2 parts; 
tin, 2 parts. 

IX. — Bismuth, 5 parts; lead, 2 parts; 

tin, 3 parts. 

X. — Bismuth, 2 parts; lead, 2 parts; 
tin, 2 parts. 

Quick -Water. — That the amalgam 
may easily take hold of bronze objects 
and remain there, it is customary to 
cover the perfectly cleansed and shining 
article with a thin coat of mercury, which 
is usually accomplished by dipping it into 
a so-called quick- water bath. 

In the form of minute globules the 
mercury immediately separates itself 
from the solution and clings to the bronze 
object, which thereupon presents the 
appearance of being platea with silver. 
After it has been well rinsed in clean 
water, the amalgam may be evenly and 
without difficulty applied with the 
scratch brush. 

This quick- water (in reality a solution 
of mercurous nitrate), is made in the sim- 
plest manner by taking 10 parts of mer- 
cury and pouring over it 11 parts of 
nitric acid of a specific gravity equal to 
133; now let it stand until every part 
of the mercury is dissolved; then, while 
stirring vigorously, add 540 parts of 
water. This solution must be kept in 
closed flasks or bottles to prevent im- 
purities, such as dust, etc., from falling 
into it. fe 

The preparatory work on the object 
to be gilded consists mainly in cleansing 
It irom every trace of oxidation. First 
It must be well annealed by placing it in 
a bed. of glowing coal, care being cxer- 
Wh ^ the heating be uniform. 
ft WM 000 ! 1 ^' P iepe is Ponged into 
a highly diluted sulphuric-acid bath in 
TW d V! solv e J n a measure the oxide. 
«ext it is dipped m a 30° nitric-acid bath, 

diWrf if? W i5 a brush; j t « now 

dipped into nitric acid into which a little 



lampblack and table salt have v 
thrown. It is now ready f 0r ^„ 
in clean water and drying ; n „JT 
sawdust. It is of the greatiti^ 3 ^ 
that the surface to be gilded shlKf J c 
pear of a pale yellow tint all over vfi 
be too smooth the gold will not take t n 
easily, and if it be too dull it will rp ■ 
too much gold to cover it. e quir e 

GOLD ALLOYS: 

Colored Gold Alloys.— The all 0 y a of 
gold with copper have a reddish thW 
those of gold with silver are whiter and 
an alloy of gold, silver, and copper to 
gether is distinguished by a greenish 
tone. Manufacturers of gold War g 
make use of these different colors, one 
piece being frequently composed of 
several pieces of varying color. Below 
are given some of these alloys, with their 
colors; 





Gold 


Silver 


Copper 


Steel 


Cad- 
mium. 


I.. 


2 


6 


1 


0 










II.. 


75 


0 


16 


6 








*8.4 


III.. 


74 


6 


11 


4 


9. 


7 




4.3 


IV.. 


75 


0 


12 


6 








IS. 5 


v.. 


1 


0 


2 


0 










VI. . 


4 


0 


8 


0 


i. 


d 






VII. . 


14 


7 


7 


0 


6. 


0 






VIII.. 


14 


7 


9 


0 


4. 


0 






IX.. 


3 


0 


1 


0 


1. 


0 






X.. 


10 


0 


1 


0 


4. 


0 






XL. 


1 


0 






1. 


0 






XII.. 


1 


0 






Q 


0 






XIII.. 


30 


0 


3 


6 






2.6 




XIV.. 


4 


0 










1.0 




XV.. 


29 


0 


ii 


G 










XVI.. 


1 


3 










1.0 





Nos. I, II, III, and IV are green go. 
o. Vis pale yellow; Nos. VI, 
III bright yellow; Nos. IX and X P 



N 

VIII 



gold; 
and 
pale 



red; Nos. XI and XII bright red; *js. 
XIII,. XIV, and XV gray; while Jvo- 
XVI exhibits a bluish tint. The finisBea 
gold ware, before being put "P. 0 ?"! 
market, is subjected to a s P cCial 
ment, consisting either in the s p 
pickling or in the so-called coloring 
which operation is conducted esp 
with allovs of low degree of finely 
object being to give the layers a su* 
ficial layer of pure gold. -Jorflbly 
The presence o? silver consider*^ 
modifies the color of gold, and '£ Ha in 
er makes use of this property Vj[ olV ing 
alloys of various shades. lh e ; 
proportions are to be observed, v 



ALLOYS 



Gold Silver Copper 
Color of Gold per per per 
1,000 1,000 1,000 

I Green 750 250 ... 

II. Dead leaves. ... 700 300 . . . 

Ill Sea green 600 400 . . . 

JV Pink 750 200 50 

V English yellow.. 750 125 125 
VI English white. .. 750 150 100 

VII Whiter 750 170 80 

VIII Less white 750 190 60 

IX. Red. 750 ... 250 

Other colored gold alloys are the fol- 
lowing: 

X- Blue, — Fine gold, 75; iron, 25. 

XI. Dark Gray. — Fine gold, 94; 
iron, 6. 

XII. Pale Gray. — Fine gold, 191; 
iron, 9. 

XIII. Cassel Yellow. — Fine gold, 75; 
fine silver, 12£; rose copper, 12$. 

The above figures are understood to 
be by weight. 

The gold solders, known in France 
under the names of soudures au quart 
(13^ carat), aw tiers (12 carat), and au 
deux (9 carat), are composed of 3, % or 
1 part of gold respectively, with 1 part of 
an alloy consisting of two-thirds silver and 
one-third copper. Gold also forms with 
aluminum a series of alloys of greatly vary- 
ing coloration, the most curious of them, 
composed of 22 parts of aluminum for 88 
parts of gold, possessing a pretty purple 
shade. _ But all these alloys, of a highly 
crystalline base, arc very brittle and can- 
not be worked, for which reason their 
handsome colorings have not yet been 
capable of being utilized. 
Enameling Alloys. — I. Transparent. 
This alloy should possess the property 
of transmitting rays of light so as to give 
the highest possible effect to the enamel. 
The alloy of gold for transparent green 
should be pale; a red or copper alloy 
does not do for green enamel, the copper 
has a tendency to darken the color and 
tnua take away a part of its brilliancy. 
Itie following alloy for transparent 
green possesses about the nearest print, 
m color, to the enamel— which should 
represent, as near as possible, the color 
and brilliancy of the emerald— that can 
oe arrived at: 

, ozs. dwta. grs. 

*inegold 0 18 8 

Fine silver o I 6 

Fine copper 0 0 10 

nf'u?- borax must ^ e used in tne melting 
oi this alloy, it being of a more fusible 
mature than the ordinary alloy, and will 

iT ta w e so a teat in enameling. 
U. Fed Enamel.— The enamel which 
rms this color being of a higher fusing 
8 



point, if proper care be not taken t 

rum ed. In the preparation of red enam- 
el the coloring raattcr is usually an S 
of gold, and this so raises the tempera- 
ture at whrch it melts that, in o2 to 
prevent any mishap, the gold to be enam 
eled on should be what is called a jgl 
carat red, that is, it should contain a 
preponderance of copper in the alloying 

Fine gold o 18 8 

Fine silver 0 0 10 

Fine copper 0 1 6 

Gold-leaf Alloys.— All gold made into 
leaf is more or less alloyed. The gold 
used by the goldbeater is alloyed ac- 
cording to the variety of color required. 
Fme gold is commonly supposed to be in- 
capable of being reduced to thin leaves. 
This, however, is not the case, although 
its use for ordinary purposes is unde- 
sirable on account of its greater cost. It 
also adheres by contact of one leaf with 
another, thus causing spoiled material 
and wasted labor; but for work exposed v 
to the weather it is much preferable, as 
it is more durable and does not tarnish 
or change color. 

The following is a list of the principal 
classes of leaf recognized and ordinarily 
prepared by beaters with the proportion 
of alloy they contain - 



II. Pale red. . . 

III. Extra deep. 

IV. Deep 

V. Citron 

VI. Yellow .... 

VII. Pale yellow 

VIII. Lemon .... 

IX. Green or pale 



Gold-Plate Alloys.— Gold, 92 parts; 
copper, 8 parts. . 
Jf. _ Gold, 84 parts; copper, 16 parts. 
TTT.__Gold, 75 parts; copper, 25 parts. 

IMITATION GOLD. . ^ , 

I.-One hundred parts by weight ■ 
enrmer of the purest quality; 14 ot zinc 
or P tfn foLJne S i,;\ The 
limestone and cream ot taitar. x^g 
coTne ?? HfiiJt melted, then the magnesia, 
SKmoSiac, limestone s and cream of 
tartar in powder are added separately 
S3 Gradually. The whole mass is kept 
KiS for a naif hour, the zinc or 
being dropped in piece by piece, the . 



Gold 


Silver Copper 


grs. 


grs. grs. 


456-460 


. . . 20-24 


464 


16 


456 


12 12 


444 


24 12 


440 


30 10 


408 


72 


384 


96 .... 


360 


120 


312 


168 .... 


240 


240 



rinf? being kept up till they melt. Fi- 
nally the crucible is covered and the mass 
is kept in fusion 35 minutes and, the same 
feeing removed, the metal is poured mto 
molds, and is then ready for use. .The 
alloy thus made is said to be fine-grained, 
malleable, takes a high polish, and does 
not easily oxidize. , 

II —An invention, patented in uer- 
manv, covers a metallic alloy, to take 
the place of gold, which, even if exposed 
for sometime to the action of ammonia- 
cal and acid vapors, does not oxidize or 
lose its gold color. It can be rolled and 
worked Tike gold and has the appearance 
of genuine gold without containing the 
slightest admixture of that metal. The 
alloy consists of copper and antimony m 
the approximate ratio of 100 to 6, and is 
produced by adding to molten copper, 
as soon as it has reached a certain degree 
of heat, the said percentage of antimony. 
When the antimony; has likewise melted 
and entered into intimate union with the 
copper, some charcoal ashes, magne- 
sium, and lime spar are added to the mass 
when the latter is still in the crucible. 

III. Aluminum Gold. — This alloy, 
called Nuremberg gold, is used for mak- 
ing cheap gold ware, and is excellent for 
this purpose, as its color is exactly that of 
pure gold, and does not change in the air. 
Articles made of Nuremberg gold need 
no gilding, and retain their color under 
the hardest usage; even the fracture of 
this alloy shows the pure gold color. The 
composition is usually 90 parts of cop- 
per, 2.5 of gold, and 7.5 of aluminum. 

IV. — Imitation gold, capable of being 
worked and drawn into wire, consists of 
950 parts copper, 45 aluminum, and 2 to 
5 of si) ver. 

V. — Chrysochalk is similar in com- 
position to Mannheim gold: 

popper 90.5 58.68 

Zinc - 7.9 40.22 

Lead 1.6 1.90 

In color it resembles gold, but quickly 
Loses its beauty if exposed to the air, on 
account of the oxidation of the copper 
J* can however, be kept bright for a W 
wWl 7 a , C0 ] atin g 1 »f colorless varnish, 
which excludes the air and prevents 
oxidation Chrysochalk is used for 
most ot the ordinary imitations of gold 
Cheap watch chains and jewelry are 

heintTold^ G ° ld ° r Similor.-Mann- 
Snd tin £ 5 COm P f,SHl of copper, zinc, 
and tin, ,n proportions about as follows' 



1 

Copper 83.7 898 

Zinc 9.3 «a 

Tin 7.0 J; 

It has a fine yellow color, and Waa 
formerly much used in making butt 
and pressed articles resembling g^U 
Later alloys, however, surpass it in Co j 
and it has fallen somewhat into di«si 
One variety of Mannheim g 0 \^ * 
called, contains 1.40 parts of br* 0 
(composition 3 Cu 2 1 Zn) to 10 of CO m>£ 
and 0.1 of zinc. 

Mosaic Gold.- -This Is an alloy com 
posed— with slight deviations— 0 f iqq 
parts of copper and 50 to 55 of zinc. It 
has a beautiful color, closely resembling 
that of gold, and is distinguished by a 
very fine grain, which makes it especially 
suitable for the manufacture of castings 
which are afterwards to be gilded. The 
best method of obtaining a thoroughly 
homogeneous mixture of the two metals 
is first to put into the crucible one-half 
of the zinc to be used, place the cover 
upon it, and fuse the mixture under a 
cover of borax at as low a temperature 
as possible. Have ready the other half 
of the zinc, cut into small pieces and 
heated almost to melting, and when the 
contents of the crucible are liquid throw 
it in, a small portion at a time, stirring 
constantly to effect as intimate a mixture 
of the metals as possible. 

Oreide or Oroide (French Gold).— The 
so-called French gold, when polished, so 
closely resembles genuine gold in color 
that it can scarcely be distinguished from 
it. Besides its beautiful color, it has the 
valuable properties of being very ductile 
and tenacious, so that it can easily be 
stamped into anv desired shape; it also 
takes a high polish. It is frequently 
used for the manufacture of spoons, 
forks, etc., but is unsuitable for this pur- 
pose on account of the large amount ol 
copper contained in it, rendering it i D " 
jurious to health. The directions M 
preparing this alloy vary greatly. -J-JI 
products of some Paris factories siiav 
the following composition: 

I II 111 

Copper 90 80.5 86.21 

Zinc P 10 14.5 5J3 

T lm 0.24 

Iron ■ • ^ 

A special receipt for oreide is the o 
lowing: -nd 

IV.— Melt 100 parts of copp<* * oJ 
add, with constant stirring, 6 pa y 0 j 
magnesia, 3.6 of sal ammoniac, 
lime, find 9 of crude tartar. * e 



ALLOYS 



thoroughly and add 17 _ parts of granu- 
lated zinc, and after mixing it with the 
copper by vigorous stirring keep the 
alloy liquid for one hour. Then care- 
fully remove the scum and pour off the 
alloy. 

Pinchbeck. — This was first manufac- 
tured in England. Its dark gold color 
is the best imitation of gold alloyed with 
copper. Being very ductile, it can easily 
be rolled out into thin plates, which can 
be given any desired shape by stamping. 
It does not readily oxidize, and thus 
fulfills all the requirements for making 
cheap jewelry, which is its principal use. 



Or 



Copper 88.8 93.6 

Zinc 11.2 6.4 

Copper 2.1 1.28 

Zinc 0.7 

Brass.. 1.0 0.7 



Palladium Gold. — Alloys of gold, cop- 
per, silver, and palladium have a brown- 
ish-red color and are nearly as hard as iron. 
They are sometimes (although rarely) 
used for the bearings for the axles of the 
wheels of fine watches, as they invite little 
friction and do not rust in the air. The 
composition used in the Swiss and Eng- 
lish watch factories consists usually of 
gold 18 parts, copper 13 parts, silver 11, 
aad palladium 6. 

Talmi Gold.— The name of talmi gold 
was_ first applied to articles of jewelry, 
chains, earrings, bracelets, etc., brought 
from Paris, and distinguished by beau- 
tiful workmanship, a low price, and 
great durability. " Later, when this al- 
loy had acquired a considerable reputa- 
tion, articles were introduced under the 
same name, but which were really made 
of other metals, and which retained their 
beautiful gold color only as long as they 
were not used. The fine varieties of tal mi 
gold are manufactured from brass, cop- 
per, or tombac, covered with a thin plate 
?i gold, combined with the base by roll- 
ing, under strong pressure. The plates 
are then rolled out by passing through 
tollers, and the coating nut only acquires 
considerable density," but adheres so 
closely to the base that the metal will 
~* C P its beautiful appearance for years 
ut 'ate, many articles of talmi 



ha 



v e been introduced whose gold 



gold 

coat- 



is S :- 1S J >roduced by electroplating, and 



man y cases so thin that" hard 
the K g WlU trin S through the color of 
j se " Such articles, of course, are 
durable. In genuine talmi gold, the 
gating, even though it may be thin, ad- 
etes v «y closely to the base, for the rea- 



69 

son that the two 

welded bv the rSin^ Vf 6 ? CtUa11 
alloyed gold i s 'vf* &nd a } aa because 

mu4ha?dl^Ln d p^ g Z ed ' T« i3 
gold of e ectropkting fa®^ 3 e Q3S 
composition of some variSea i ^ • 
gold are here given It ™Tl u ° f ta i mi 
the content of ™fc ? ^? 
the durability of the allov wifl «p y * 
correspond to this. The aUoys I 
are genuine Paris talmi gold; IV* V 
VI are electroplated * V ' 



an 
an 



\m " imitations: 
* is an alloy of a wrong compos™ 
to which the gold does not adhere firmly 



I. 
II. 
III. 

IV. 



Coppl; 



89, 
90. 
90. 
90. 
88. 
87. 
83. 
93. 
84, 
86, 



Zinc 
9.3 
8.3 
8.9 
89.0 
11.4 
12.4 
17.0 
6.6 
15.8 
12.0 



Tin Iron 



Gal 
1. 
0. 
0. 

0. 
0. 
0.0 



1.1 0.3 



n 

vi. | 

VII. 

Japanese Alloys. — In Japan som 

specialties in metallic alloys are in use< 
which the composition is as follows: 

Shadke consists of copper with from 1 
10 per cent of gold. Articles made fro 
this alloy are laid in a pickle of bl 
vitriol, alum, and verdigris, until th 
acquire a bluish-black color. 

Gui-shi-bu-ichi is an alloy of copr 
containing 30 to 50 per cent of silver, 
possesses a peculiar gray shade. 

Mokume consists of several conrposi 
tions. Thus, about 30 gold foils (ge~ 
uine) are welded together with shac ' 
copper, silver, and gui-shi-bu-ichi 
pierced. The pierced holes are, 
firmly hammering together the plates, 
filled up with the above-named pickle. 

The finest Japanese brass consists i 
10 parts copper and 8 parts zinc, and 
called siachu. The bell metal kara kan 
is composed of copper 10 parts, tin 1 
parts, iron 0.5 part, and zinc 1.5 .parts 
The copper is first f used,_ then the 
maining metals are added m rotation. 

GERMAN SILVER OR ARGENTAN. 

The composition of this alloy rant 
considerably, but from the adjoined fij 
ures an average may be found wtac 
will represent, approximately, the norms 
composition: 

rn-nner . . • 50 to 66 parts 

S£ p e per 19 to SI parts 

Nickel*'.'.'.... 13 to 18 parts 
The properties of the different kinds, 
such as Jheir colc= ductility, fusibility, 



aft 



vary with the proportions of the 
single metals. For making spoons, forks, 
cups, candlesticks, etc., the most suitable 
Proportions are 50 parts of copper, 25 of 
S and 25 of nickel. This metal has 
a beautiful blue-white color, and does 
not tarnish easily. . , T 

German silver is sometimes so brittle 
that a spoon, if allowed to fall upon the 
floor, will break; this, of course, indicates 
faulty composition. But the following 
table will show how the character ot the 
alloy changes with the varying percent- 
age of the metals composing it: 

Zinc Nickel Quality 
3.5 4 Finest quality. 
3.5 6 Beautiful, but 
refractory. 
3 Ordinary, 

readily fus- 
ible. 

52 26.0 22 First quality. 
59 30.0 11 Second quality. 
63 31. 0 6 Third quality. 

The following analyses give further 
particulars in regard to different kinds 
of German silver: 



I. 
II. 



Copper 
8 
3 



(II. 8 6.5 




VI. 



For sheet 



(French) . . 
(French) . . 
(French) , . 
Vienna 
Vienna. . . . 
Vienna. . . . 

Berlin 

Berlin 

English 

English 

English 

English.. . . 
Chinese. . . 
Chinese. . . 
Chinese. . . 
Chinese. . . 
Castings. . . 
Castings. . . 



Castings . 



Cop- 
1 per 


Zinc 


Nickel 


Lead 


Iron 


50.0 


31.3 


18.7 






50.0 


30.0 


20.0 






58.3 


25.0 


16.7 






50.0 


25.0 


25.0 






55.6 


22.0 


22.0 






60.0 


20.0 


20.0 






54.0 


28.0 


18.0 






55.5 


29.1 


17.5 






63.31 


17.01 


19.13 






62.40 


22.15 


15.05 






62.63 


26.05 


10.85 






57.40 


25. 


13.0 




3.6 


26.3 


36.8 


30. a 




43.8 


40.6 


15.6 






45.7 


36.9 


17.9 






40.4 


25.4 


31.6 




2.6 


48.5 


24.3 


24.3 


2.9 


. 54.5 


21.8 


21.8 


1.9 




'58.3 


19.4 


19.4 


2.9 




.57.8 


27.1 


14.3 


0.8 




57. 


20.0 


20.0 


3.0 





In some kinds of German silver are 
found varying quantities of iron, man- 
ganese tin and very frequently lead, 
added or the purpose of changing the 
property of the alloy or cheapening he 
hil l Potion. But all these metals 
firial Pff? e t tnment ^ mther than a bene- 
the allov T n the . general character of 
the alloy, and especially lessen its power 



of resistance to the action of dilute -j 
one of its most valuable pron^- ' 
Lead makes it more fusible; tin s " 
somewhat as in bronze, making it ri p acta 
and more resonant, and enabling if! 1 
take a higher polish. With iron or rW 
ganese the alloy is whiter, but it K 
comes at the same time morerejract 
_ftnd its tendency toward {^'-n^T?. 
increase!!. L 3 

SUBSTITUTES FOR GERMAN =m 
VER. aiL " 

There are many formulas for alio? 
which claim to be substitutes f or Ger- 
man silver; but no one of them h as Te ~ 
become an article of general commerce 
It will be sufficient to note these ma- 
terials briefly, giving the composition of 
the most important. 

Nickel Bronze.— This is prepared by 
fusing together very highly purified 
nickel (99.5 per cent) with copper, tin, 
and zinc. A bronze is produced contain' 
ing 20 per cent of nickel, light-colore 
and very hard. 

Bismuth Bronze. — 

I II III IV 

Copper 25.0 45.0 69.0 47. 

Nickel 24.0 32.5 10.0 30. 

Antimony 50.0 

Bismuth! 1.0 1.0 1.0 0. 

Tin 16,0 15.0 1. 

Zinc. ... 21.5 20.0 21. 

Aluminum 1.0 

I is hard and very lustrous, suitab 
for lamp reflectors and axle bearings; 
is hard, resonant, and not affected b 
sea water, for parts of ships, pipes, tel 
graph wires, and piano strings; III an 
IV are for cups, spoons, etc. 

Manganese Argentan. — 

Copper 52 to 50 parts 

Nickel..... 17 to 15 

Zinc 5 to 10 2 

Manganese 1 to o 

Copper, with 15 per (t 
cent phosphorus. 3 to o 

Readily cast for objects of art. 

A tt.T. 66 par* 

Nickel 2 J <( 

Tungsten.... (i 

Copper 

Arguzoid.- ^ 

Copper *> J • „'°- *3S 

Zinc 23.108 

Nickel 13.406 

Tin * Off 

Lead S -°-Wf 

Silver white, almost ductile, suiteu 
artistic purposes. 



ALLOYS 



p er ro-Argentan.— 

Copper 70.0 parts 

Nickel 20.0 « 

Zinc 5.5 " 

Cadmium 4.5 " 

Resembles silver; worked like German 
silver- 
Silver Bronze. — Manganese, 18 . per 
cen t; aluminum, 1.2 per cent; silicium, 
h ner cent; zinc, 13 per cent; copper, 67.5 




man. 



fable tor rheostats 



Instrument Alloys. — The following 
are suitable for physical and optical in- 
struments, metallic mirrors, telescopes, 
etc.: 

I. — Copper, 62 parts; tin, 33 parts; 
lead, 5 parts. 

II. — Copper, 80; antimony, 11 ; lead, 9. 
HI. — Copper, 10; tin, 10; antimony, 

10; lead, 40. 

IV. — Copper, 30; tin, 50; silver, 2; 
arsenic, 1. 

V. — Copper, GO; tin, 33. 

VI. Copper, 64; tin, 26. 

VII. -— Steel, 90; nickel, 10. 

VIII. — Platinum, 60; copper, 40. 

IX. — Platinum, 45; steel, 55. 

X. — Platinum, 55; iron, 45. 
XL — Platinum, 15; steel, 85. 

XII. — Platinum, 20; copper, 79; ar- 
senic, 1. 

XIII. — Platinum, 62; iron, 28; gold, 

XIV. — Gold, 48; zinc, 52. 

XV. — Steel, 50; rhodium, 50. 

X VL —Platinum, 12; iridium, 88. 
XVII.— Copper, 89.5; tin, 8.5; zinc, 2. 

LEAD ALLOYS. 

The following alloys, principally lead, 
are used for various purposes: 

Bibra Alloy.— This contains 8 parts of 
bismuth, 9 of tin, and 38 to 40 of lead. 

Metallic Coffins.— Tin, 40 parts; lead, 
^ Parts; copper, 15 parts. 

Plates for Engraving. — I. — Lead, 
^antimony, 16 parts. 

u.— Lead, Q « 

Parts 



86 parts; 

rj.,5 I, "~ I,ea(J ' 87 Parts; 
copper, lparL 

p ls ' tin, 5 parts 

-Lead, 73 parts; 



V. 
Parts; 



antimony, 
antimony, 
antimony, 
antimony, 



84 
14 
12 
14 
17 



a *tim onyj4 ' pa ; ta . 



parts; lead, 43 parts; 



8* parts; 



Hard lead is marl* of i j 
antimony, 16 parte? ° f ^ 
Sheet Metal Alloy.— 
Tin 

Lead J™ parts 

Copper 1" 25 S e P^t S 

zinc o'g parts 

This alloy has a fine white cJH^ j 
can be readily rolled into r £ aild 

For that reason it t well adaV^^ 
hmng tea chests and forlhe ^SdSfS"" 
of tobacco and chocolate wrappers TT 
copper and zmc are nsed In the for 
of hue shavings. The alloy should be 
immediately cast into thin plates, whic 
can then be passed through rolls. 

MAGNETIC ALLOYS. 

Alloys which can be magnetized n 
strongly are composed of copper, man 
ganese, and aluminum, the quantities o 
manganese and aluminum being pro 
portional to their atomic weights (55.0 t 
27.1, or about 2 to 1). The maximu 
magnetization increases rapidly wit 
increase of manganese, but alloys eon 
taining much manganese are exceedingl 
brittle and cannot be wrought. Th 
highest practicable proportion of man 
ganese at present is 24 per cent. 

These magnetic alloys were studied h 
Ilensler, Ilaupt, and Starck f and Gum 
lich has recently examined them at th 
Physikaliseh - technische Iteichsanstalt 
with very remarkable and interesting re 
suits. 

The two alloys examined were com 
posed as follows: 

Alloy I.— Copper 61.5 per cent; man 
ganese, 23.5 per cent, aluminum, 15 pe 
cent; lead, 0.1 per cent, with traces of iro 
and silicon. . 

Alloy II.— Copper, 67.7 per .cent 
manganese, 20.5 per cent; aluminum 
10.7 per cent; lead, 1.2 per cent, wit 
traces of iron and silicon. 

Alloy II could be worked ™£out dif- 
ficulty, but alloy I was so brittle hat it 
broke under the hammer. A bar 7 inches 
long and i inch thick was obtained by 
grinding. This broke in two during the 
g^surfments, but, fortunately wjhou 
invalidating them. Such » i mater aJ 

A ^k^S S Si chat 
loy I u «^™nt to tomp t c 

W - h but S behavior of. alloy ILj 



toy 

ges 



^ATZnt Prolonged heating to 2S0< 
very different, irm . % ease in its capa- 
F. produces a great i n *- 1 ^ B . , fter 544 



ALLOYS 



irauss approaching the strength of alloy 
r But when alloy II is heated to 329° 
p its capability of magnetization fails 
affkin and the material suffers permanent 
be partly, 



but not 



was 



injury, which can 
wholly, cured by prolonged heating 
Another singular phenomenon 
exhibited by both of these alloys. When 
a bar of iron is magnetized by an electric 
current, it acquires its full magnetic 
strength almost instantaneously on trie 
closure of the circuit. The magnet! c 
allovs, on the contrary, do not attain 
their full magnetization for several min- 
utes. In some of the experiments a 
gradual increase was observed even after 
the current had been flowing five minutes 
In magnetic strength alloy I proved 
far superior to alloy II, which con- 
tained smaller proportions of manga- 
nese and aluminum. Alloy I showed 
magnetic strengths up to 4.5 kilogauss, 
while the highest magnetization ob- 
tained with alloy II was only 1.9 kilo- 
gauss. But even alloy II may be called 
strongly magnetic, for its maximum mag- 
netization is about one-tenth that of good 
wrought i yn" fl s to 20 M°B auss )- or 
one- sixth that of cast iron (10 to 12 
kilogauss). Alloy I is nearly equal in 
magnetic properties to nickel, which can 
be magnetized up to about 5 kilogauss. 

MANGANESE ALLOYS: 

Manganese bronze is a bronze de- 
prived of its oxide by an admixture of 
manganese. The manganese is used as 
copper manganese containing 10 to 30 
per cent manganese and added to the 
bronze to the amount of 0.5 to 2 per cent. 

Manganese Copper.— The alloys of 
copper with manganese have a beauti- 
ful silvery color, considerable ductility, 
great hardness and tenacity, and are 
more readily fusible than ordinary 
bronze. A special characteristic is that 
they exactly fill out the molds, with- 
out the formation of blowholes, and pre- 
sent no difficulties in casting. 

Cupromanganese is suitable for many 
purposes for which nothing else but 
bronze can advantageously be used, and 
ttie cost of its production is no greater 
tban that of genuine bronze. In pre- 
paring the alloy, the copper is used in the 
iorm of fine g-ains, obtained by pouring 
melted copper into cold water. These 
copper grains are mixed with the dry 
oxide of manganese, and the mixture put 
? rucible holding about 66 pounds, 
enough space must be left in the cruci- 
al %£ ™ a tW ck cover of charcoal, 
as tne manganese oxidizes easily. The 
"ucble is pl aced in a weU-drawing 



wind furnace and subjected to a 
white heat. The oxide of mangan - 8 
completely reduced to manganese w fi ? 
at once combines with the cop per L f ' 
an alloy. In order to prevent, as fa 01 
possible, the access of air to the fi* 9,8 
mass, it is advisable to cover the cruc^n 8 
with a lid which has an aperture in Jl 
center for the escape of the carbon- 
oxide formed during the reduction 

When the reduction is complete anrf 
the metals fused, the lid is removed a 1 
the contents of the crucible stirred win, 
an iron rod, in order to make the allov 
as homogeneous as possible. By re 
peated remelting of the cupromanganese 
a considerable quantity of the man- 
ganese is reconverted into oxide; : t 3" 
therefore, advisable to make the easts 
directly from the crucible. When soured 
out, the alloy rapidly solidifies, &ud re* 
sembles in appearance good German 
silver. Another reason for avoiding re- 
melting is that the crucible is strongly 
attacked by the cupromanganese, and 
can be used but a few times. 

The best kinds of cupromanganese 
contain between 10 and 30 per cent of 
manganese. They have a beautiful 
white color, are hard, tougher than cop- 
per, and can be worked under the ham- 
mer or with rolls. Some varieties of 
cupromanganese which are especially 
valuable for technical purposes are given 
below: 

I II 

Copper 75 60 

Manganese . 25 25 

Zinc 15 

Tin 

Nickel 



Ill IV 

65 GO 



20 
5 



10 



20 

10 
10 



Manganin. — This is an alloy of copper, 
nickel, and manganese for electric re- 
sistances. 

MIRROR ALLOYS : 

Amalgams for Mirrors.— I. — Tm, w 
parts; mercury, 30 parts. . f . 

II.— For curved mirrors. Tin, 1 pa"' 
lead, 1 part; bismuth, 1 part; mercury, 

Pa in.-Por glass balls. Tin, 80 p»W 
mercury, 20 parts. «o 

IV. — Metallic cement. Copper, 
parts; mercury, 70 parts. mnnirts: 

V. — Mirror metal.— Copper, 100 pjr^ 
tin, 50 parts; Chinese copper, t> P 
lead, 1 part; antimony, 1 part. , 

Reflector Metals. - 1. — (p°°P* £; 
Copper, 35 parts; platinum, b ' Z . 0 f\h« 
tin, 16.5; arsenic, 1. On account ^ 
hardness of this alloy.^ it tak ^l e ff e cts 
high polish; it is impervious to * n ^^k* 



of the weather, and is therefore 



ALLOYS 



. . we ]l adapted to the manufacture 
8 J ' mirrors for line optical instruments. 
II. — (Duppler's.) Zinc, 20 parts; sil- 

80 parts. 

^t'jj J-Copper, 66.29 parts; tin, 33.11 

narts;" arsenic, 0.67 part. 

P IV.— Copper, 64 parts; tin, 3& parts; 

overlie, 4 parts. 

* y —Copper, 82.18 parts; lead, 9.22 
narts; antimony, S.60 parts. 
v VI.— (Little's.) Copper, 69.01 parts; 
tin, 30- s2 P arts ' zine > P arts ; arsenic, 
1.83 parts. 

Speculum Metal.— Alloys consisting 
of 2 party of copper and I of tin can 
k e very brilliantly polished, and will 
serve for mirrors. Good speculum metal 
should have a very fine-grained fracture, 
should be white and very hard, the high- 
est degree of polish depending upon these 
qualities. A composition to meet these 
requirements must contain at least 35 to 
36 per cent of copper. Attempts have 
Tequently been made to increase the 
hardness of speculum metal by additions 
of nickel, antimony, and arsenic. With 
the exception of nickel, these substances 
have the effect of causing the metal to 
lose its high luster easily, any consid- 
erable quantity of arsenic in particular 
having this effect. 
The real speculum metal seems to be 
combination of the formula Cu^Sn, 
composed of copper 68.21 per cent, tin 
31.7. An alloy of this nature is some- 
times separated from ordnance bronze 
hy incorrect treatment, causing the so- 
called tin spots; but this has not the pure 
white color which distinguishes the spec- 
ulum metal containing 31.5 per cent of tin. 
By increasing the percentage of copper 
the color gradually shades into yellow; 
with a larger amount of tin into blue. It 
is dangerous to increase the tin too much, 
as this changes the other properties of the 
alloy, and it becomes too brittle to be 
worked. Below is a table showing differ- 
ent compositions of speculum metal. The 
standard alloy is undoubtedly the best. 

Arse- Sil- 

Tin 



Copper 
. 68.21 



Standard 

alloy, 
Otto's 

alloy.. .. 68.5 
Kichar d- 



Zinc 



31.7 
31.5 



ton's alloy M.S 30.0 0.7 
b °lbt's al- 



io- 



2. 

64.6 31.3 4.1 Nickel 



C hinese 
speculum 

aetal. 80.83 8.5 Anti- 

^Koman 63.39 19.05 .... 17.29 Lead 



PALLADIUM ALLOYS. 

f\~ A P al , l ?y of palladium 24 parts 
go d 80, is white, hard as steel, unchange- 
able in the air, and can, like the other 
alloys of palladium, be used for dental 

purposes. 

II. —Palladium 6 parts, gold 18, sil 
yer 11, and copper 13, gives a reddish 
brown, hard, and very fine-graiue 
alloy, suitable for the bearings of pivots 
in clock works. 

The alloys of most of the other plati 
num metals, so called, are little used o 
account of their rarity and costliness. 
Iridium and rhodium give great hardnes 
to steel, but the commercial rhodhr 
and iridium steel, so called, frequentl 
contains not a trace of either. The alio 
of iridium with osmium has great hard 
ness and resistance and is recommende 
for pivots, fine instruments, and poin* 
of ship compasses. 

Palladium Silver. — This alloy, cor 
posed of 9 parts of palladium and 1 o 
silver, is used almost exclusively for de 
tal purposes, and is well suited to th 
manufacture of artificial teeth, as it do 
not oxidize. An alloy even more fre 
quently used than this consists of plati 
num 10 parts, palladium 8, and gold 6. 

Palladium Bearing Metal. — This alio 
is extremely hard, and is used instead 
jewel bearings in watches. It is com 
posed of palladium £4 parts, gold 7 
silver 44, copper 92. 

PLATINUM ALLOYS. 

Platinum has usually been alloye 
with silver in goldsmith's work, % part 
silver to 1 of platinum being taken t 
form the favorite "platinum silver. 
The object has been to produce an alio 
having a white appearance, which can b 
polished, and at the same time has 
W melting point. In addition to tn 
platinum alloy the following are w 

known: , .. „; 

I.— A mixture of 7 parts platinum w 
3 parts iridium. Thfc g>V* to platinu 
/e hard ness of steel, which „^be* 
further increased by taxing * v 

"^An alloy of » P^^fcu^'l 
1 part iridium ts used *yj£*°$& 
the manufacture of measurin S 
ments of great resisting PJ> we £, d cad 
Compounds of coppe *j m **g'fo th 

construction of parts o dness w ^ 

o^VbToSnl-gUc or rusting hk 

St ni.-For this purpose a compound o 



mi5 parts platinum, 18 parts copper, 
Si parts cadmium, and 18 parts nickel 
in much recommended. 

jy Very ductile platinum - copper 

alloys' have also been made, e. g., the so- 
called Cooper gold, consisting of 3 parts 
• platinum and 13 parts copper, which as 
ahnost equal to 18-carat go Id ^ «gard 
to color, finish, and ductility If 4 per 
cent of platinum is taken, these latter 
alloys acquire a rose-red color while a 
golden-yellow color can be produced by 
further adding from 1 to 2 per cent Jm 
all 5 to 6 per cent) of platinum, lne 
last-named alloy is extensively used for 
ornaments, likewise alloy V. 

V Ten parts platinum, 60 parts 

nickel, and 220 parts brass, or 2 parts 
platinum, 1 part nickel and silver re- 
spectively, 2 parts brass, arid 5 parts 
copper; this also gives a golden-yellow 
color. . „ 

VI. — For table utensils a favorite alloy 
is composed of 1 part platinum, 100 parts 
nickel, and 10 parts tin. Articles made 
of the latter alloy are impervious to at- 
mospheric action and keep their polish 
for a long time. Pure white platinum 
alloys have for some time been used in 
dental work, and they have also proved 
serviceable for jewelry. 

VII. — A mixture of 30 parts platinum, 
10 parts gold, and 3 parts silver, or 7 
parts platinum, 2 parts gold, and 3 parts 
silver. 

VIII. — For enameled articles: Plati- 
num, 35 parts; silver, 65 parts. First 
fuse the silver, then add the platinum 
in the spongy form, A good solder for 
this is platinum 80 parts, copper 20 
parts. 

. IX. — For pens: Platinum, 4 parts; 
silver, 3 parts; copper, 1 part. 

Platinum Gold.— Small quantities of 
platinum change the characteristics of 
gold in many respects. With a small 
percentage the color is noticeably lighter 
than that of pure gold, and the alloys are 
extremely elastic; alloys containing more 
than 20 per cent of platinum, however, 
almost entirely lose their elasticity. The 
melting point of the platinum-gold alloy 
is high, and alloys containing 70 per cent 
ot platinum can be fused only in the 
W^yf o£ o*ykydrogen gas, like platinum 
useit Alloys with a smaller percentage 
ot Platinum can be prepared in furnaces, 
*M rtrongest white heat! 
in order to avoid the chance of an im- 
perfect alloy from too low a temperature, 
oxvhv 1 73 S ^ fer to W them with the 
i™,t y °? en ?? me - The a »°ys of plat- 
mum and gold have a somewhat lim- 



ited application. Those whiot, 
from 5 to 10 per cent of pl at i n COlltai " 
used for sheet and wire in. thp 1 " ar 
facture of artificial teeth. tt aim, 

Platinum-Gold Alloys for Dental * 
poses.— taj p ur, 

■on x' 1 *I III 

Platinum. 6 u X \ L 

Gold g "I 

Silver. i I 6 

Palladium 'g 

. Platinum Silver -An addition of plat 
mum to silver makes it harder, but 1 
more brittle, and changes the white c I 
to gray. An alloy which contains onlv 
a very small percentage of platinum J 
noticeably darker m color than PUre 
silver. Such alloys are prepared under 
the name of platine au Hire, containing 
between 17 and 35 per cent of pl a ti. 
num. They are almost exclusively used 
for dental purposes. 

Imitation Platinum. — I. — Brass, 100 
parts; zinc, 65 parts. 

II. — Brass, 120 parts; zinc, 75 parts. 

III. — Copper, 5 parts; nickel, 4 parts; 
zinc, 1| parts; antimony, 1 part; lead, I 
part; iron, 1 part; tin, 1 part. 

Cooper's Pen Metal. — This alloy is 
especially well adapted to the manufac- 
ture of pens, on account of its great hard- 
ness, elasticity, and power of resistance 
to atmospheric influences, and would 
certainly have superseded steel if it were 
possible to produce it more cheaply than 
is the case. The compositions most fre- 
quently used for pen metal are coppei 
1 part, platinum 4, and silver 3; or, 
copper 21, platinum 50, and silver 30. 

Pens have been manufactured, con- 
sisting of several sections, each of a dif- 
ferent alloy, suited to the special purpose 
of the part. Thus, for instance, Wj 
sides of the pen are made of the elastic 
composition just described; the upp 
part is of an alloy of silver and P Mll '"Z 
and the point is made either of minute tc. 
rubies or of an extremely hard a no 
osmium and iridium, joined to tJie I 
of the pen by melting in the U&r& g 
the oxy hydrogen blowpipe. _ 1 he F 
such pens, made of expensive m*^^ 
and at the cost of great labor, is oi 1 
exceedingly high, but their e. 
qualities repay the extra expense. ^ 
are not in the least affected by » ' s 
of ink, are most durable, and can t • ^ 
constantly for years without snowies 
signs of wear. stance to 

The great hardness and reMSta ^ 
the atmosphere of Coopers aU V tuI i 
them very suitable for inanui^ 



ALLOYS 



mathematical instruments where great 
precision is required. It can scarcely 
he calculated how long a chronometer, 
for instance, whose wheels arc construct- 
ed of this alloy, will run before showing 
a ny irregularities due to wear. In the 
construction of such instruments, the 
Dt {(iQ of the material is not to be taken 
into account, since the cost of the labor 
in their manufacture so far exceeds this. 

PEWTER. 

This is an alloy of tin and lead only, 
or of tin with antimony and copper. 
The first is properly called pewter. 
Three varieties are known in trade: 

I (Plate Pewter). — From tin, 7S per 
cent; antimony, 7 per cent; bismuth and 
copper, of each 2 per cent; fused to- 
gether. Used to make plates, teapots, 
etc. Takes a fine polish. 

II (Triple Pewter).— From tin, 79 
per cent; antimony, 15 per cent; lead, 
(j per cent; as the last. Jsed for inifiOT 
articles, syringes, tovs, etc. 

III (Ley Pewter).— From tin, 80 
^>er cent; lead, 20 per cent. Used for 
measures, inkstands, etc. 

According to the report of a French 
commission, pewter containing more 
than 18 parts of lead to 82 parts of tin is 
unsafe for measures for wine and similar 
(iquurs, and, indeed, for any other uten- 
sils exposed to contact with food or 
beverages. The legal specific gravity 
of pewter in France is 7. 764; if it be 
greater, it contains an excess of lead, 
and is liable to prove poisonous. The 
proportions of these rnetals may be ap- 
proximately determined from the specific 
gravity; but correctly only by an assay 
for the purpose. 

BILVER ALLOYS : 

Aluminum Silver. — Aluminum and 
silver form beautiful white alloys which 
are considerably harder than pure alu- 
minum, and take a very high polish. They 
nM 6 • advanta g e over copper alloys 
m being unchanged bv exposure to the 
air and of retaining their white color. 

Ihe properties of aluminum and silver 
alloys vary considerably according to 
tte percentage of aluminum. 
^ n f ^ 11 all °y of 100 parts of aluminum 

r 5 Parts of silver is very similar to 
Pye aluminum, but is harder and takes 
aimer polish. 

* .* P n e hundred and sixty-nine parts 
' aiuiiiinum and 5 of silver make an 
Rr J c alloy, recommended for watch 

ITT gS a I Ld dessert knives. 
E „ d , A n alloy of equal parts of silver 
11 aluminum is aa hard as bronze. 



par t v ;r^ r s e i a ir^r and 

5y worked. an all °y ttat « eaa 

TTptlt? a!u ™»^ » Parts, and a: 



ver 



VI. Tiers -Argent. —Thk 

pared chiefly inSaris, "and S 
manufacture of various utensil" As £ 
dtcated by its name (one-third su\er 
it consists of 38.33 parts of silver an 
66.66 parts of aluminum. Its adva 
tages over silver consist in its lower ori 
and greater hardness; it can also b 
stamped and engraved more easily tha 
the alloys of copper and silver. 
. VII.— This is a hard alloy which h 
been found very useful for the operati 
levers of certain machines, such as ' 
spacing lever of a typewriter. The me 
now generally used for this purpose 
the various typewriter companies is "al 
milium silver," or "silver metal." T 
proportions are given as follows: 

Copper. 57.00 

Nickel 20.00 

Zinc , 20 . 00 

Aluminum... 3.00 

This alloy when used on typewriti 
machines is nickel-plated for the sake 
the first appearance, but so far as corr 
sion is concerned, nickeling is unnece 
sary. The alloy is stiff and strong a 
cannot be bent to any extent witho 
breaking, especially if the percentage 
aluminum is increased to 3.5 per cen 
it casts free from ninholes and bio 
holes; the liquid metal completely fi 
the mold, giving sharp, clean casting 
true to pattern; its cost is not great 
than brass; its color is silver whit 
and its hardness makes it susceptible 
a high polish. 

Arsenic. — Alloys which contain srna 
quantities of arsenic are very ductn 
have a beautiful white color, and wer 
formerly used in England in the ma 
ufacture of tableware. They are no 
however, suitable for this purpose, o 
account of the poisonous character 
the arsenic. They are composed usuall 
of 49 parts of silver, 49 of copper, and 
of arsenic. 

■ China Silver. -Copper, 65.24 per cen" 
tin, 19.52 per cent; nickel, 13.00 per cen 
silver, 2.05 per cent. 

Cooner-Sil ver.— When silver is alloye 
JhS&rily onepropor^om s kno w 
which will give a uniform casting, 
proportion Is 72 per cent silver to 8E I p 
cent copper. With more silver than 7 
per cent the center of a cast bar will 



76* 



ALLOYS 



richer than the outside, which chills 
first; while with a less percentage |_ than 



II 

40 
30-40 
20-30 



III 

20 
45-55 
25-35 



^per cent the center of the bar will be 
pooler and the outside richer than the 
Average. This characteristic of silver- 
cJppef alloys is known to metallurgists 
as segregation.' , 
When nickel is added to the silver and 
copper, several good, alloys may be 
formed, as the following French com- 
positions: ^ 

Silver 33 

Copper. . . . 37-42 

Nickel 25-30 

The whitening of alloys of silver and 
copper is best accomplished by anneal- 
ing the alloy until it turns black on the 
surface. Cool in a mixture of 20 parts, by 
weight, of concentrated sulphuric acid to 
1,000 parts of distilled water and leave 
therein for some time. In place of the 
sulphuric acid, 40 parts of potassium 
bisulphate may be used per 1,000 parts 
of liquid. Repeat the process if neces- 
sary. 

Copper, Silver, and Cadmium Alloys. 
—Cadmium added to silver alloys gives 
great flexibility and ductility, without 
affecting the white color; these proper- 
ties are valuable in the manufacture of 
silver-plated ware and wire. The pro- 
portions of the metals vary in these al- 
loys'. Some of the most important vari- 
eties are given below. 



L. 
II.. 

III. . 

IV. . 

v.. 

VL. 
VII. . 



Silver 
980 
950 
900 
860 
666 
667 
500 



Copper Cadmium 



15 
15 
18 
20 
25 
50 
50 



5 
35 
82 
180 
309 
284 
450 



In, preparing these alloys, the great 
volatility of cadmium must be taken 
into account. It is customary to pre- 
pare first the alloy of silver and copper, 
and add the cadmium, which, as in the 
case of the alloys of silver and zinc, must 
be wrapped in paper. After putting it 
in the mass is quickly stirred, and the 
alloy poured immediately into the molds. 
1 his is the surest way to prevent the 
volatilization of the cadmium. 

Silver, Copper, Nickel, and Zinc Alloys, 
-incse alloys, from the metals con- 
■med in them, may be characterized as 
'gentan or German silver with a cer- 
m percentage of silver. They have 
iK 6n i U i Gd fo r mak ing small coins, as in 
»lt T'/T of Switzerland. Being 
mte hard, they have the advantage of 



wearing well, but soon lose their b 
tiful white color and take on a disa? 1 " 
able shade of yellow, like poor hr C " 
The silver contained in them can K," 
regained only by a laborious p roces 7 
which is a great drawback to their 7 
in coinage. The composition of th 6 
Swiss fractional coins is as follows 1 



20 cen- 
times 



Silver 15 

Copper . 50 

Nickel 25 

Zinc 10 

Mousset's Alloy.— Copper, 59.06; s i], 
ver, 27.56; zinc, 9.57; nickel, 3.42. This 
alloy is yellowish with a reddish tinge 
but white on the fractured surface, It 
ranks next after Argent- liuolz, which 
also contains sometimes certain quanti- 
ties of zinc, and in this case may be 
classed together with the alloy just de- 
scribed. The following alloys can be 
rolled into sheet or drawn into wire: 

I II III 

Silver 33.3 34 40.0 

Copper 41.8 42 44.fi 

Nickel....... 8.6 8 4.6 

Zinc 16.3 16 10.8 

Japanese (Gray) Silver. — An alloy 
prepared in Japan which consists at 
equal parts of copper and silver, and 
which is given a beautiful gray color bj 
boiling in a solution of alum, to which 
copper sulphate and verdigris are added. 
The so-called "mokum," also a Japaner 
alloy, is prepared by placing thin plate 
of gold, silver, copper, and the alloy jus 
described over each other and stretch 
ing them under the hammer. The cros 
sections of the thin plates obtained « 
this way show the colors of the different 
metals, which give them a peculiar 
striped appearance. Mokum is prin- 
cipally used for decorations upon goia 
and silver articles. 

Silver-Zinc— Silver and zinc h»« 
great affinity for each other, and aJK>7» 
of these two metals are therefore easu? 
made. The required quantity s Sg 
wrapped in paper, is thrown into 
melted and strongly heated silver,.^ 
mass is thoroughly stirred witn a 0 i<J s , 
rod, and at once poured out into . ^ 
Alloys of silver and zinc can i be odi ^ 
which are both ductile and n ex ! we " - j 1 
alloy consisting of 2 parts of znic 
of silver closely resembles silver l 
and is quite ductile. With a )ar ^ r ittle. 
portion of zinc the alloy become. . ger 
In preparing the alloy, a somewhat i ^ 
quantity of zinc must be taken tn . 




ALLOYS 



finished alloy is intended to contain, as a 
gjaall amount always volatilizes. 

Imitation Silver Alloys. — There are a 
umber of alloys, composed of different 
D etals, which resemble silver, and may 
u e briefly mentioned here. 

2 Warne's metal is composed of tin 

10 parts, bismuth 7, and cobalt 3. It 
is white, fine-grained, but quite difficult 
to fuse. 

jl Tonca's metal contains copper 5 

parts, nickel 4, tin 1, lead 1, iron 1, 
zinc 1, antimony 1. It is hard, difficult 
to fuse, not very ductile, and cannot be 
recommended. 

III. — Trabuk metal contains tin 87.5, 
nickel 5,5, antimony 5, bismuth 5. 

jy. — Tourun-Leonard's metal is com- 
posed of 500 parts of tin and 64 of bell 

metal. . , . i, , 

V. — Silveroid is an alloy of copper, 
nickel, tin, zinc, and lead. 

VI. — Minargent. Copper, 100 parts; 
nickel, 70 parts; tungsten, 5 parts; alu- 
minum, 1 part. 

VII. — Nickel, 23 parts; aluminum, 
5 parts; copper, 5 parts; iron, 65 parts; 
tungsten, 4 parts. 

VIII. — Argasoid. Tin, 4.035; lead, 
3.544; copper, 55.780; nickel, 13.406; 
zinc, S3. 198; iron, trace. 

SOLDERS : 

See Solders. 

STEEL ALLOYS: 

See also Steel. 

For Locomotive Cylinders. — This mix- 
ture consists of 20 per cent steel castings, 
old steel springs, etc.; 20 per cent No. 2 
coke iron, and GO per cent scrap. From 
this it is stated a good solid metal can be 
obtained, the castings being free from 
honeycombing, and finishing better than 
the ordinary cast-iron mixture, over which 
it has the advantage of 24 per cent great- 
er strength. Its constituents are: Sili- 
con, 1.51; manganese, 0.33; phosphorus, 
ft'SS' sul P hur . 0.068; combined carbon, 
graphite, 2.45. 
Nickel steel is composed of nickel 36 
Per cent, steel 64 per cent. 

lungsten steel is crucible steel with 
0 lo 1S per cent tungsten. 

STEREOTYPE METAL. 

L?ad 2 p ar ts 

J^} n 3 parts 

« is ninth 5 parts 

p T3 ^ ^^ting point of this alloy is 196° 
of +iT a "°y i s rather costly because 
cont ■ amount of bismuth which it 
c heaDCT S «' * 0 ^ 0W i n S mixtures are 



II III 

3 1 
5 l,i 
8 3 



IV 

2 
2 
5 
1 



Tin 

Lead 

Bismuth. . 
Antimony. 

TIN ALLOYS : 

Alloys for Dentists* Molds and Dies 
-I.-\ery hard. Tin, 16 pSS 
mony, 1 part; zinc, 1 part. ' * 

II.— Softer than the former Tin 
parts; zinc, 1 part; antimony, 1 part.' 

ILL- Very lard. Tin, 12 p a F rts; ai 
timony, 2 parts; copper, 1 p artl 

Cadmium Alloy, about the Hardness 
of Zmc. — Tin, 10 parts; antimony, 1 part- 
cadmium, 1 pari. 

Tin-Lead. — Tin is one of those metals 
which is not at all susceptible to tt 
action of acids, while lead, on the otht 
hand, is very easily attacked by thei 
In such alloys, consequently, used 1 
cooking utensils, the amount of leac 
must be limited, and should properly : 
exceed 10 or 15 per cent; but cases ha.s 
been known in which the so-called tincoi 
tained a third part, by weight, of lead. 

Alloys containing from 10 to 15 p€ 
cent of lead have a beautiful white coioj 
are considerably harder than pure 1 
and much, cheaper. Many alloys of 
and lead are very lustrous, and are usee 
for stage jewelry and mirrors for reflect 
ing the light of lamps, etc. An especial 1 
brilliant alloy is called '"Fahlun 1 
Hants." It is used for stage jewelry, 
consists of 29 parts of tin and 19 of leac 
It is poured into molds faceted in tr 
same way as diamonds, and -when see 
by artificial light, the effect is that of dw 
monds. Other alloys of tin and lead ai 
employed in the manufacture of toys 
These must fill the molds well, ant 
must also be cheap, and therefore 
much as 50 per cent of lead is use 
Toys can also be made from type met 
which is even cheaper than the alio 
o7 Un and lead, but has the 
of readilv breaking if the a tides are 

or brass molds are used. ^ ^ ^ 
Lead • * * « ■ gg p ar t s 

This aJloj ■ b T£ b «f^w«pS 
out V P™ cess '"jfff'I Tin is addec 



78 



ALLOYS 



dipping into the molten alloy P«ce8 of 
S cut to the proper shape. The tin 
foatinc of metaf which adheres to the 
Xs cools rapidly and adheres tena- 
city Outwardly these artificial gems 
appear rough and gray, but inwardly they 
are highly reflective and quite deceptive 
when seen in artificial light. 

If the reflective surfaces be coated 
with red, blue, or green aniline, various 
-colored effects can be obtained. In- 
stead of fragile glass the gems may be 
produced by means of well- polished 
pieces of steel or bronze. 

Other Tin-Lead Alloys.— Percentage 
of lead and specific gravity. 

S. G. P.O. S. G. 



P. C. 
0. . 

1. . 



! 



7.290 

.... 7.316 

7.342 

7.369 

7.396 

7.423 

7.450 

7.477 

8 7.505 

9 7.533 

10 7.562 

11 7.590 

12 7.619 

13 7.648 

-14 7.677 

15 7.706 

16 7.735 

17 .. 7.764 

18 7.794 

19 7,824 

20 7.854 

21 7.885 

22 7.916 

23 7.947 

24 7.978 

25 8.009 

26 8.041 



g8 8.105 

29 8.137 

30 .8.169 

31 8.202 

32 8.235 

33 8.268 

34 8.302 

35 8.336 

36 8.379 

37 8.405 

38.. .... .. 8,440 

39 8.476 

40 8.512 

41 8.548 

42 8 . 584 

43 8.621 

44 8.658 

45 8.695 

46 8.732 

47 8.770 

48 8.808 

49 8,846 

50 8.884 

60 9.299 

70 9.736 

80 10.225 

90 . . .10.767 



97 8.073 100 11.370 

Tin Statuettes, Buttons, etc.— 

I. — Tin 4 partg 

Lead 3 par t s 

This is a very soft solder which sharp- 
ly reproduces all details. r 
Another easily fusible alloy but some- 
what harder, is the following: 

II. — Tin 8 parts 

V ea . d 6 parts 

_ Antimony 0.5 part 

Miscellaneous Tin Alloys. — I — Alf?er 

S a 'Vv 11 ',, 90 P arts ; antimony, 10 
parts. This alloy is suitable as a protector 
11. Argent, ne Metal.— Tin, 85.5 per cent- 
-antimony, 14.5 per cent. 1 ' 

7ft tn io~ AsI i be V"? metal is composed of 

l\lToiXlii Un > 16 to 20 of a * timo ^> 



IV. Quen's Metal—Tin, 9 p art3 . i. , 
1 part; antimony, 1 part; bismuth 1^ 

Type Metal—An alloy whff^ff?- 
serve for type metal must be - B i-t 0 
cast, fill out the molds sharnlv y 
be as hard as possible. It i 3 dirh ' iw d 
satisfy all these requirements hiit 
alloy of antimony and lead answer, ^ 
purpose best. At the present day th 
are a great many formulas for t * 
metal in which other metals bear!* 



lead and antimony are used, either t 3 
make the alloy more readily fusible 



as 
or 



in the case of additions of bismuth' 
to give it greater power of resistance 
the latter being of especial importance 
for types that are subjected to constant 
use. Copper and iron have been rec- 
om mended for this purpose, but the 
fusibility of the alloys is greatly j m . 
paired by these, and the manufacture 0" 
the types is consequently more difficul 
than with an alloy of lead and antimon 
alone. In the following table some a 1 





Lead 


Anti- 
mony 


Cop- 
per 


Bis- 7 . 


I 


3 


1 






II 


5 


1 






III 


10 


1 






IV 


10 


2 




1 .. 


V 


70 


18 


'k 




VI 


60 


20 






VII 


55 


25 






VIII 


55 


30 






IX 


100 


30 


8 


i 


X 


6 




4 


. . 90 



10 
20 
20 
15 

20 



The French and English types contain 
a certain amount of tin, as shown by the 
following analyses: 

English Typos 



III 

55.0 
22.7 
°2. 1 



French 
Types 




I II 

Lead 69,2 61.3 

Antimony... 19.5 18,8 

Tin 9.1 20.2 

Copper 1.7 

Ledebur gives the composition of 
metal as follows: 

I II HI 

Lead 75 60 SO 

Antimony... 23 25 20 

Tin 22 15 

WATCHMAKERS* ALLOYS: 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 

WHITE METALS. 

The so-called white metals ■ are ,— . 
ployed almost exclusively for bear b • 
(See Anti-friction Metals under AU°p; 
In the technology of mechanics ^ 
curate distinction is made 
different kinds of metals for * 
and they may be classed in t^" re d- 
red brass and white metal. 1 D 



effl- 



brass bearings are characterized by great 
hardness and power of resistance, and 
are principally used for bearings of heav- 
ily Wcled and rapidly revolving axles, 
for the axles of large and heavy fly- 
wheels, revolving at great speed, bearings 
of red brass are preferable to white metal, 
though more expensive. 

In°recent years many machinists have 
found it advantageous to substitute for 
the soft alloys generally in use for bear- 
ings a metal almost as hard as the axle 
itself. Phosphor bronze (q. v.) is fre- 
quently employed for this purpose, as it 
can easily be made as hard as wrought 
or cast steel. In this case the metal is 
used in a thin layer, and serves only, 
as it were, to fill out the small interstices 
caused by wear on the axle and bearing, 
the latter being usually made of some 
rather easily fusible alloy of lead and tin. 
Such bearings are very durable, but ex- 
pensive, and can only be used for large 
machines. For small machines, run- 
ning gently and uniformly, white-metal 
bearings are preferred, and do excellent 
work, if the axle is not too heavily loaded. 
For axles which have a high rate of revo- 
lution, bearings made of quite hard 
metals are chosen, and with proper care 
—which, indeed, must be given to bear- 
ings of any material — they will last for a 
long time without needing repair. 



I 

fq 
a 

8 

1 

a 

1 
I 



OOOOOONPIOOO 

ooooooimooooo 



• O O O O O O Q 
I00«)003 



D a I DNMNi-tWinLINdcij ; ; OS rH (D W 00 I> 



CI 

n 9 



-QOO -o 
;qqo :q 



222222^ "oo 'oocoo 



ooo 
qqq 

00 Oi 



ooo 
qqio 

00 



coooooi-n^ooo 
ooooqqcq^NOO 



T3*T3-«T;.-d 5 d 3 O — 
g d cJ d oi O O o"^ d 

w-a-a-a-aggS's's 

9 9 9 9 a « s"^^iii 
9 e a s s a a=^=s a a 



60 . 

■g'oJ'3 

. ■-=> a> <u 

saga 

ll^lllE 
si ^43 ,£i - c| a & 

£ tig'« 
g ™ 9- m i-f o) oi 

0} u a q] n> r] r-i 



per, 5 part, ' antl ^ny, 1 0; CO p 
42 pS:~ Tin * 425 ™™°*?> 16; lead 

XXIV.— Tin, 81; antimony, lg 5 
copper, 6.5 parts. ^* 1SS - 0 

White Metals Based on Copper 
I.— Copper, 05 parts; arsenic, 55 parts 
pari 7 Copper ' 64 P arts i arseni?, 5 

• I 1 II i"";? 0pper) 10 P arts 5 zinc > ^0 parts 
nickel, 30 parts. 

IV.— Nickel, 70 parts; copper, S 
parts; zinc, 20 parts. 
^ V.— Nickel, 60 parts; copper, 30 pa 
zinc, 30 parts. 

_ VI.— Copper, 8 parts; nickel, 4 parts 
zinc, 4 parts. 

VIL— Copper, 10 parts; nickel, 
parts; zinc, 5 parts. 

VIII. — Copper, 8 parts; nickel, 
parts; zinc, 4 parts. 

IX. — Copper, 50 parts; nickel, 2 
parts; zinc, 25 parts. 

X. — Copper, 55 parts; nickel, 
parts; zinc, 21 parts. 

_ XI. — Copper,_55 parts; nickel, 24 
zinc, lC^parts; iron, 2 parts; tin, 3 par 1 
IX, X, and XI are suitable for tabl 
ware. 

XII. — Copper, 67 parts, and arsenic 
53 parts. 

XIII. — Copper, 63 parts, and arseni 
57 parts. 

XII and XIII are bright gray, un 
affected by the temperature of boiling wa- 
ter; they are fusible at red heat. 

White Metals Based on Platinum. 

I. — Platinum, 1 part; copper, 4 parts, 
or platinum, l£ parts; copper, 3 J parts. 

II. -Platinum, 10 parts; tin, 90 parte; 
or platinum, 8 parts; tin, 92 parts. 

III. — Platinum, 7 parts; copper, 13 
parts; tin, 80 parts. 

IV. — Platinum, 2 parts; steel, 98 parts 

V. — Platinum, 2.5 parts; steel, 97. 
parts. 

IV and V are for gun metal 
Miscellaneous White-Metal Alloys. 

I p or lining cross-head slides : .bead, 

65 parts; antimony, U parts; copper 
10 parts. Some object to white met 
containing lead or zinc It has bee 
found, however, that lead and an 
have properties of great use m tnes 

all l£— Tin, 85 parts; antimony, 7 
parts; copper, 7£ parts. 

III.— Tin, 90 parts; copper, 3 parts, 
antimony, 7 parts. 



ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



INC ALL ^3f j _ Th j g is sometimes 

^dS s^'p^i crfrine, 2 part* of 
omposed of 31 P* ^ wW 

^Pl'nn a layer of rosin or wax to avoid 
rrSS & tc X of Bide, 

man^clure of different utensils. 
Othe°eompo S itioos of Indian B.dery 
elal (frequently imitated in England) 
; about as follows: 



Copper. 

Zinc 

Tin..-. 
Lead . . . 



P.C. 
3.5 
93.4 

3.1 



P.O. 
11.4 
84.3 
1.4 

2.9 



P.O. 
16 
112 

4 



Erhardt recommends the following as 
eing both ductile and hard: 

Zinc 89 to 93 

Tin 9 to 6 

Lead. 2 to 4 

Copper 2 to 4 

The tin is first melted, and the lead, 
'uc, and copper added successively. 

Zinc-Nickel. — Zinc, 90 parts; nickel, 
_3 parts. Used in powder form for 
painting and cloth printing purposes. 

Platine for Dress Buttons. — Copper, 
43 parts; zinc, 57 parts. 

UNCLASSIFIED ALLOYS : 

Alloys for Drawing Colors on Steel.— 
Alloys of various composition are suc- 
cessfully used for drawing colors on steel. 
To draw to a straw color use 2 parts of 
lead and 1 part of tin, and melt in an 
on ladle. Hold the steel piece to be 
rawn in the alloy as it melts and it will 
uurn to straw color. This mixture melts 
at a temperature of about 437° F For 
darker yellow use 9 parts of lead to 4 
parts ot tin, which melts at 458° F Fnr 

482° F 5 ■ tl , ne tcm P e ^ure being 
to 2 L F °J ,r iulet i 9 parts of lead" 
to i parts i of tin, which melts at 494° F 
Lead without any alloy will draw steel 
Itodnni lk - b,U * The *bove apply to 

?ain1n\andlin n g d " ^ ° F lesS 

-f^LA° T u^ ern Letters and Figures 



timony and bismuth each lfi 
insure perfect work the m To 
be. quite hot by placing them * sh ouM 
sen burner. fe em 0v *r a bJJJ 

Alloy for Caliper and Gage^ „ 
ings. — A mixture of 30 p ar \ s ■ a Cast- 
parts aluminum gives a light a ,f^M to 7 <> 
alloy for gage rods and ?alip € ^J^bla 
gage rods must be steel tipped I T* tbc 
alloy is soft and wears awav tn 1 lhe 
for gage points. y to ° ra pi(lly 

Alloys for Small Casting Molds ^r- 
75 parts, and lead, 22 parts; or M *, f 
of zinc and 25 parts of tin- or r> i 
tin and 70 parts of lead^o? CO S ' 
lead and 40 parts of bismuth. P 

ALLOYS FOR METAL FOIL- 

See Metal Foil. 

ALMOND COLD CREAM: 

See Cosmetics. 

ALMOND LIQUEURS: 

See Wines and Liquors. 



ALTARS, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and 
ods. 



Meti- 



ALUM : 

Burnt Alum.- — I. — Heat the ahim__ 
porcelain dish or other suitable vesse 
till it liquefies, then raise and contiaui 
the heat, not allowing it to exceed 400' 
till aqueous vapor ceases to be diseu 
gaged, and the salt has lost 47 per centr 
its Weight. Reduee the residue to pov 
der, and preserve it in a well-stoppered 
bottle. — Cooley. 

II.— Heat ordinary alum (alumina 
alum) with constant stirring in anff<» 
pan in which it will first melt quietly, 
and then commence to form 
Continue heating until a dry white m ass 
of a loose character remains, ^nic 
powdered and kept in well-closed g«» 

ALUM BATH: 

See Photography. 



Aluminum and its Treatment 

HOW TO COLOR ALUMII^^. ( ( 
Blanching of Aluminum. — A b 
is one of the metals most ,n ^ fl i ufll iiiiir 
air; nevertheless, the objects oi^ 
tarnish quickly enough wnw 




ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



They may be restored to their 
"''at whiteness in trie following manner: 
? nieise the aluminum articles in a 
boiling bath of caustic potash; nest 
lunge them quickly into nitric acid, 
nnse°and let dry. It must be under- 
took that this method is applicable only 
to pieces entirely of aluminum. 

Decolorized Aluminum. — Gray or un- 
sightly aluminum may be restored to its 
wfiite color by washing with a mixture 
of 30 parts of borax dissolved in 1,000 
parts of water, with a few drops of am- 
monia added. 

Mat Aluminum. — In order to imparl 
to aluminum the appearance of mat 
silver, plunge the article into a hot bath 
composed of a 10-per-cent solution of 
caustic soda saturated with kitchen salt. 
Leave it in the bath for 15 to SO seconds, 
then wash and brush; put back into the 
bath for half a minute, wash anew and 
dry in sawdust. 

To Blacken Aluminum. — I. — The sur- 
face of the sheet to be colored is polished 
with very fine emery powder or finest 
emery cloth. Afler polishing pour a 
thin, layer of olive oil over the surface 
and heat slowly over an alcohol flame. 
Large sheets must, of course, be heated 
in the drying oven. After a short while 
pour on oil again, in order to obtain ab- 
solute uniformity of the coating, and heat 
the plate once more. Under the action 
of the heat the plate turns first brown, 
then black, according to the degrees of 
neat. When the desired coloration has 
been attained, the plate is polished over 
again, after cooling, with a woolen rag 
or soft leather. 

— White arsenic 1 ounce 

Sulphate of iron .... 1 ounce 
Hydrochloric acid . . 12 ounces 

Water lg ounces 

When the arsenic and iron are dis- 
solved by the acid add the water. The 
aluminum to be blackened should be 
""■ell cleaned with fine emery powder 
washed before immersing in the 
nfV i i ng solution - When the deposit 
^ black ls deep enough dry off with fine 
sawdust and lacquer. 

Decorating Aluminum. — A process for 
decorating aluminum, patented in Ger- 
™ a &y, prescribes that the objects be first 

Ca ed ' wHel1 is usua % done vrith 
tfiptl , Soda 1 J re > or > better still, by a new 
of i L wl " cn consists in heating 3 parts 

Ho» ? ric acid with 1 P art of water to 
to 15ft 0 T? ; n an enameled vessel- 
dip the aluminum arti- 



TTIC 



T - 158° F., 
An to this liquid 



cles, rinsing them off clear. a 
mg them well. Th t cnJ??^*^ 
are now placed in 3 ba t d 
1,000 parts of abAo l" fan n8I8tln R oi 
1.50 parts of a Kol { ^L^I 
chemically pure hydrochloric add 10° 
parts of manganous nitrate, and 2 
of purified and finally elutriated gr 
ite. In this bath, which i« h»J j P 
86°-9S° p thc cbjecls ar S e h S e U nt 
fumes develop around them, which ta 
place m a few seconds. Now thev HT 
put over a coal fire or similar arranS 
meat until the alcohol is burned up a ? 
there is no more smoke. After they 
somewhat cooled off, they are laid im 
cold water and worked with a brush the 
rinsed with water and well dried. ' Tl 
pieces are now provided with a gray 
talhc coating, consisting mainly of 
mony, manganese, and graphite. Tl 
metallic layer renders them capable of : 
ceiving a lacquer which is best prepart 
from 1,000 parts of alcohol (90 per cent 
50 parts of sandarac, 100 parts of shells 
and 100 parts of nigrosine (black anili 
color). Then the articles are quick] 
but thoroughly rinsed off, dried 
warmed air for a few minutes, and bal 
in ovens or over a moderate coal 
until they do not smoke any more and 
more gloss can be seen. Finally the 
are rubbed with a cotton rag saturate 
with thin linseed-oil varnish, and the 
jects thus treated now appear dull blacl 
like velvet. The covering withstands 
action of the weather, so that cookii 
vessels coated with this varnish on tl 
outside can be placed on the fire withoi 
injury to the coating. If the articles ai 
engraved, the aluminum appears alnu 
glossy white under the black layer at t 
engraved places. When the pieces hai 
been provided with the gray metalli 
coating, colored lacquer may also b 
applied with the brush. In this manne 
paintings, etc., may be done on all 
minum, while not possible on unprepared 
aluminum surfaces, which will not retail 
them. 

Making Castings in Alurmiium.-Th 

method adopted n P^P^g ™* 
and cores for aluminum work w neCes 
cnrilv somewhat the same as tor crass 

£e S2f J. r££!d b Consideration c 
"SflSlBSJtt. sand. ,vnich sW 



82 



ALUMINUM AND ITS 



lTMENT 



rmt have been previously used, that of a 
fine S should be chosen, but it should 
Jot Sve any excess of aluminous matter, 
or it will not permit of the free escape 
of gLS and a£ this being an important 
matter. Besides this, the sand must be 
used as dry as pa* uble c^W* 1 ™^ 
holding against the flow of the metal, 
and having only moderate compression 
in ramming. . . . 

In making the molds it is necessary 
to remember that aluminum has a large 
contraction in cooling, and also that at 
certain temperatures it is very weak and 
tears readily, while all metals shrink 
away from the mold when this is 
whollv outside the casting, but they 
shrink on to cores or portions of the 
mold partly inclosed by metal. Thus, 
if casting a plate or bar of metal, it will 
shrink away from the mold in all direc- 
tions; but if casting a square frame, it 
shrinks away from the outside only, 
while it shrinks on to the central part 
or core. With brass, or iron, or such 
metals, this is not of much importance, 
but with some others, including alumi- 
num, it is of great importance, because 
if the core or inclosed sand will not give 
somewhat with the contraction of the 
metal, torn or fractured castings will be 
the result. Both for outside and inside 
molds, and with cores used with alu- 
minum, the sand should be compressed 
as little as possible, and hard ramming 
must in every case be avoided, particu- 
larly where the metal surrounds the sand. 
The molds must be very freely vented, 
and not only at the joint of the mold, 
but by using the vent wire freely through 
the body of the mold itself; in fact, for 
brass the venting would be considered 
axcessive. With aluminum it is, how- 
ever, necessary to get the air off as rapid- 
ly as possible, because the metal soon 
gets sluggish in the mold, and unless it 
runs up quickly it runs faint at the edges, 
lhe mgates should be wide and of fair 
area, hut need careful making to prevent 
their drawing where they enter the cast- 
ing, the method of doing this being 
known to most molders. ' 

If it is considered desirable to use a 
all \ mad , e "U P facing sand for the 
molds where the metal is of some thiok- 

w!nV iwf of . 3 liUle P ea or bean m( =al 
will be all that is necessary. To use this, 
nrst dry as much sand as may be re- 
2!d t« a " d i? f S ^\° X ^ h a 20-mesh sieve, 

f .w e f bus ¥ of , tlie fine sand ™* 

acain n«« • V^ rts V f raea1 ' afterwards 
again passing through the sieve to insure 

b? t ThI - S Sand should th^ 
be damped as required, being careful 



that all parts are equally mo i s t r v , . 
on a board being a good wav\ E 
tough, and in good condition S^**, 
minimum or moisture. * 1 « 

The molds should not be sleeked 
tools, but they may be dusted over 



plumbago or steatite"; "smooth^ !fg 
a camel s-hair brush, m cases i a A- 1 ? 1 * 
very smooth face is required on +i & 
castings. Preferably, however tl, 
of the brush even should be „£gf 
Patterns tor aluminum should be k 
smooth and well varnished. ^ 
In melting the metal it is necessary tn 
use a plumbago crucible which is C W 
and which has not been used for oth 
metals. Clay or silica crucibles are not 
good for this metal, especially silica on 
account of the metal absorbing silicon 
and becoming hard under some condi- 
tions of melting. A steady fire is neces- 
sary, and the fuel should reach only 
about halfway up the crucible, as it is 
not desirable to overheat the crucible or 
metal. The metal absorbs heat for 
some time and then fuses with some ra- 

Eidity, hence the desirability of a steady 
eat; and as the metal should be poured 
when of a claret color under the film of 
oxide which forms on the surface, too 
rapid a heating is not advisable. The 
molding should always be well in ad- 
vance of the pouring, because the metal 
should be used as soon as it is ready; for 
not only is waste caused, but the metal 
loses condition if kept in a molten state 
for long periods. The metal should be 
poured rapidly, but steadily, and whea 
cast up there should not be a large head 
of metal left on top of the runner. In 
fact, it is rather a disadvantage to leave 
a large head, as this tends to draw rather 
than to feed the casting. , 
With properly prepared molds, ana 
careful melting, fluxes are not required, 
but ground cryolite— a fluoride of sodl,1I J 
and aluminum— is sometimes used 
increase the fluidity of the metal, in 
using this, a few ounces according ™ 
the bulk of metal to be treated is P™ 
into the molten metal before it M ™V 
from the furnace, and well stirred "J 
and as soon as the. reaction apparc* / 
ceases the pot is lifted and the met 1 f 
i • r i i ,i 'T he use ui 

once skimmed and poured, J-^ j 9 

sodium in any form with alu ^' Xuld 
very undesirable, however, and ^ e5 
be avoided, and the same reraarK ^f[ 0 y- 
to tin, but there is no objection W » 
ing with zinc, when the metal tans v 
duced is sold as an alloy. . . m0 lcls 
Aluminum also casts very wel > bat j, 
of plaster of Paris and crusneu 
brick when such molds are perfect 




ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



j W£ J1 vented, smoothness being se- 
lD ed by brushing over with dry stea- 
C, f F or plumbago. When casting in 
etal molds, these should be well 
[fusbed out with steatite or plumbago, 
t,r ( j" inade fairly hot before pouring, as in 
aIJ ](i molds the metal curdles and be- 
^ fflPS sluggish, with the result that the 
castings run up faint. 

To Increase the Toughness, Density, 
an( ] Tenacity of Aluminum.- — For the 
purpose of improving aluminum, with- 
out increasing its specific gravity, the 
aluminum is mixed with 4 to 7 per cent 
of phosphorus, whereby the density, te- 
nacity, and especially the toughness are 
said to be enhanced. 

WORKING OF SHEET ALUMINUM: 
The great secret, if there is any, in 
working aluminum, either pure or al- 
loyed, consists in the proper lubricant 
and the shape of the tool. Another 
great disadvantage in the proper working 
of the metal is that, when a manufac- 
turer desires to make up an article, he 
will procure the pure metal in order to 
make his samples, which, of course, is 
harder to work than the alloy. But the 
different grades of aluminum sheet which 
are on the market are so numerous for 
different classes of work that it might 
be advisable to consider them for a mo- 
ment before passing to the method of 
working them. 

The pure metal, to begin with, can 
be purchased of all degrees of hardness, 
from the annealed, or what is known as 
the "dead soft" stock, to the pure alumi- 
num hard rolled. Then comes a harder 
P*de of alloys, running from "dead 
soft" metal, which will draw up hard, to 
the same metal hard rolled; and, still 
again, another set of alloys which, per- 
PjPs, are a little harder still when hard 
"d a and „ wiu » when starting with the 
dead soft," spin up into a utensil which, 
j™en finished, will probably be as stiff as 
lass. These latter alloys are finding 
arge sale for replacing brass used in all 



ni. u° '^, art witb - latne w ork on aluminum, 
Fonably more difficulty has been found 
and espec ^ a ^y i' 1 working pure metal, 
Q more complaints are heard from 
stal s ,° 1 urce tb.au from any other. As 
can li ? efore » however, these difficulties 
tool f readil y overcome, if the proper 
ag ® an °. the proper lubricants are used, 
lDa j Utoin *tic screw machines are now 
^orW' S ° tluit tney can ^ e operated when 
Whett il aluiuinum just as readily as 
som y are working brass, and in 
^ e cases more readily. To start with 



tool," that is, instearoL short stubbf 
Point, such as would be iSd S'tSSSf 
brass, the point should be lengtW 
out _ and f t f dearance *XdT E 
the inside of the tool, so as P to g 
hips of the metal a eood ch fl1n JF?,?^ 



^ P i ine metal a good chance to fre 
themselves and not cause a cloggin 

fair . l f he ^ oiDt ° f the tool-* K 

lar tool, for instance, to what would be 
used for turning wood. 

The best lubricant to be used woula 
be coal oil or water, and plenty of it. The 
latter is almost as good as coal oil if 
enough of it is used, and with either of 
these lubricants and a tool properly 
made, there should be no difficulty what 
soever in the rapid working of aluminui 
either on the lathe or on automatic screi 
machines. 

To go from the lathe to the drawing 
press, the same tools here would be usee 
in drawing up shapes of aluminum a 
are used for drawing up brass or othe 
metals; the only precaution necessai 
in this instance being to use a prop*: 
lubricant, which in this case is a chea^ 
grade of vaseline, or in some cases larc 
oil, but in the majority of instances bette 
results will be secured by the use c 
vaseline. Aluminum is probably sus- 
ceptible of deeper drawing with less 
occasion to anneal than any of the othe 
commercial metals. It requires bi 
one-third or one-fourth of as much ai 
nealing as brass or copper. For ii 
stance, an article which is now mam 
factured in brass, requiring, say, three oi 
four operations before the article is fii 
ished, would probably have to be ai 
ncaled after every operation. Wit! 
aluminum, however, if the proper grade 
is used, it is generally possible to perform 
these three operations without annealing" 
the metal at all, and at the same time tc 
produce a finished article which, to all 
intents and purposes, is as stiff as ai 
article made of sheet brass. 

Too much stress cannot be laid on tne 
fact of starting with the proper grade of 
metal, for either through igno»D«or 
by not observing this point is the founda- 
tion of the majority of the oomplaints 
That aluminum "has been tned an cT found 
wantine " If, however, it should be 
found necessary to anneal aluminum, 
£ can be readily accomphshed by 
heatine it in an ordinary muffle, being 
Heating it »» tempe rature shall not 
careful that trie le^FV 70f)O -p ^ 

a soft pine stick and draw it across hi 



84> 



ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



metal. If it chars the stick and leaves 
a black mark on the metal, it is suffi- 
ciently annealed and is in a proper con- 
dition to proceed with further opera- 

l °Next taking up the question of spin- 
ning aluminum, success again depends 
• particularly on starting with the proper 
metal. The most satisfactory speed 
for articles from 5 to 8 inches in diam- 
eter is about 2,600 revolutions a minute, 
and for larger or smaller diameters the 
speed should be so regulated as to give 
the same velocity at the circumference. 
Aluminum is a very easy metal to spin 
and no difficulty should be found at all 
in spinning the proper grades of sheets. 
Several factories that are using large 
quantities of aluminum now, both for 
spinning and stamping, are paying their 
men by the piece the same amount that 
they formerly paid on brass and tin work, 
and it is stated that the men working on 
this basis make anywhere from 10 to 
20 per cent more wages by working alu- 
minum. 

After aluminum has been manufac- 
tured into the shape of an article, the next 
process is the finishing of it. The best 
polish can be obtained by first cutting 
down the metal with an ordinary rag buff 
on which use tripoli, and then finish it 
with a dry red rouge which comes in the 
lump form, or that which is known as 
"White Diamond Rouge." One point, 
however, that it is necessary to observe 
carefully is that both the tripoli and the 
rouge should be procured ground as fine 
as it is possible to grind them; for, if this 
is not done, the metal will have little fine 
scratches all over it, and will not appear 
as bright and as handsome as it other- 
wise would. 

If it is desired to put on a frosted ap- 
pearance, this can either be done by 
scratch brushing or sand blasting. A 
brass wire scratch brush, made of 
crimped wire of No. 32 to No. 36 B & 
b. gage, with three or four rows of bris- 
tles, will probably give the best results, 
lms work of scratch brushing can be 
somewhat lessened, however, if, before 
applying the scratch brush to the surface 
ot the aluminum, the article is first cut 
down by the use of a porpoise-hide wheel 
l ut Conne 1 cticu t sand, placing the 
m,™ be 5Tu en ^Vurface of the alumi- 
num and the wheel, so that the skin and 
the irregularities on the surface are re- 
moveo, and then putting the article on 
Lit u ? W ^ ee . 1 &efnre attempting to 

eve/t ! >r T h n it - This ™thod, W 
tht 1 Probably more advantageous in 
the treating of aluminum castings than 



for articles manufactured out of th 
metal, as in the majority of ca • e 
simply necessary before scratch hrf l- 
to cut down the article with trm r 
then polish it with rouge a, already ^ 
scribed, before putting on the « 
brush; in this way the brush see ^ 
take hold quicker and better, and t to 
duce a more uniform polish ' xo P*o- 
An effect similar to the acratch-W 
finish can be got by sand blasting 
by first sand blasting and then sctSS 
brushing the sheets, a good finish is 
tained with very much less labor than h 
scratch brushing alone. Another 
pretty frosted effect is procured by first 
sand blasting and then treated as here 
inafter described by "dipping" a J 
"frosting," and many variations In the 
finish of aluminum can be got by varying 
the treatment, either by cutting down 
with tripoli and polishing, scratch brush- 
ing, sand blasting, dipping, and frosting" 
and by combinations of those treatments. 
A very pretty mottled effect is secured on 
aluminum by first polishing and then 
scratch brushing and then holding the 
aluminum against a soft pine wheel, run 
at a high rate of speed on a lathe, and by 
careful manipulation, quite regular forms 
of a mottled appearance can be obtained. 

The dipping and frosting of aluminum 
sheet is probably the cheapest way of 
producing a nice finish. First remove 
all grease and dirt from the article by 
dipping in benzine, then dip into water 
in order that the benzine adhering to 
the article may be removed, so as not to 
affect the strength of the solution into 
which it is next dipped. After they have 
been taken out of the water and well 
shaken, the articles should be plunged in 
a strong solution of caustic soda or caus- 
tic potash, and left there a sufficient 
length of time until the aluminum starts 
to turn black. Then they should »e 
removed, dipped in water again, and the 
into a solution of concentrated mt ™ 
and sulphuric acid, composed of 2*1 P ar 
of nitric acid to 1 part of sulphuric acio- 
After being removed, the article siv owj 
be washed thoroughly in water and 
in hot sawdust in the usual way 



finish can also be varied somewhat bj 
making the solution of caustic s oa» . 
varying degrees of strength, or by a ^ e 
a small amount of common salt i 
solution. blood- 
In burnishing the metal use ^ " is h- 
stone or a steel burnisher. In D B[)( j 
ing use a mixture of melted vasei i ^ ^ 
coal oil, or a solution compost 
tablcspoonfuls of ground borax ?T ft jf tf f- i 
in about a quart of hot water, W" 1 




AMALGAMS 



83 



, n3 of ammonia added. In engrav- 
?> P which adds materially to the ap- 
rf'rance of finished castings, book cov- 



picture frames, and similar articles 

t 

'^htlia or coal oil, or a mixture of coal 



^je of sheet, probably the best lubri- 
nt to use on an engraver's tool in order 
obtain a clean cut, which is bright, is 



■i a ncl vaseline. The naphtha, how- 
ever, is preferred, owing to the fact that 
ft does not destroy the satin finish in the 
Neighborhood of the cut, as the other 
lubricants are very apt to do. There is, 
jj 0W ever, as much skill required in using 
m d making a tool in order to give a 
bright, clean cut as there is in the choice 
of the lubricant to be used. The tool 
should be made somewhat on the same 
plan as the lathe tools already outlined. 
That is, they should be brought to a 
sharp point and be "cut back" rather 
ar, so as to give plenty of clearance. 

There has been one class of work in 
aluminum that has been developed 
ately and only to a certain extent, in 
which there are great possibilities, and 
that is in drop forging the metal. Some 
very superior bicycle parts have been 
manufactured by drop forging. This can 
)e accomplished probably more readily 
with aluminum than with other metals, 
or the reason that it is not necessary 
with all the alloys to work them hot; 
ronsequently, they can be worked and 
landled move rapidly. 

ALUMINUM, TO CLEAN: 

^See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

ALUMHTOM ALLOYS : 

See Alloys. 

ALUMINUM BRONZE: 

See Alloys under Bronzes. 

ALUMINUM CASTINGS: 

see Casting. 

ALUMINUM PAPER: 

see Paper. 

ALUMINUM PLATING: 

fte e Plating. 

ALUMINUM POLISHES: 

b «e Polishes. 



Amalgams 



Alloys. alS ° Easily Fusible AHoy 3 mlder 
Th 

^Ys «f name amalgam is given to al- 
term « tals containing mercury. The 
ll si 2 niVI UCS to m from the alchemists. 
6 mes softening, because an excess^ 



of mercury dissolves a l arge number of 

Preparation of Amalgam <3 \f 
forms amalgams with^Ti^Jf 00 ^ 
unites directly and readily, either co ld S 
hot w lth potasfiium> Jtium J^u™ 
strontium, calcium, magnesi 
cadmium, tm : antimony, lead 
fil a ^ ld i directfy, but. 
ncultly, with aluminum, copper and 
palladium. This combinat?on 'taket 
place oftenest at the ordinary temper 
ature; certain metals, however, F 
aluminum and antimony, combine on] 
when heated m presence of quicksilver, 

Quicksilver has no direct action o 
metals of high fusing points: manganes 
iron, nickel, cobalt, uranium, platinum 
and their congeners. Still, amalgam; 
oi these metals can be obtained of buty 
rous consistency, cither by electrolysis o: 
their saline solutions, employing quick 
silver as the negative electrode, or by th< 
action of an alkaline amalgam (potas 
sium or sodium), on their concentrate 
and neutral saline solutions. Thes 
same refractory metals are also amalgi 
mated superficially when immersed : 
the amalgam of sodium or of ammoniu 
in presence of water. 

Processes for preparing amalgams b; 
double decomposition between an alkalin 
amalgam and a metallic salt, or by elec 
trolj'sis of saline solutions, with employ- 
ment of mercury as the negative elec 
trode, apply a fortiori to metals capabU 
of combining directly with the quick- 
silver. The latter of these methods 
especially utilized for the preparation 
alkaline earthy metals by electrolyth 
decomposition of the solutions of thei. 
salts or hydrated oxides with quicksilve 
as a cathode. 

General Properties of Amalgams. 
Amalgams are liquid when the quick- 
silver is in great excess; solid, but readily 
fusible, when the alloyed metal pre- 
dominates, j 

They have a metallic luster, and a 
metallic structure which rende»Jh«n 
brittle. They even form 
metallic combinations of constant proper 

silver, when the excess e » v , 
compression in a ch ^/„t slendir 
filtration in a. g la %. fu ™ ri fi ce almost 
stem, terminating with an orifice aim 

capillary. fusinff heat of a metal 

According as the fusing u binatioa 
is less or gre at er than x ts ^ mation 
heat with quicksilver, the *J»Jfe or a 

of this metal P«" du ^» * n Thus pcrta*- 
lowering of temperature, Xtn 



sium, sodium, and cadmium, in alloy 
with quicksilver, disengage heat; while 
ainc antimony, tin, bismuth, lead, and 
silver combine with mercury with ab- 
sorption of heat. The amalgamation ot 
162 parts of quicksilver with 21 parts ot 
lead 12 parts of tin or of antimony, and 
g8.5 parts of bismuth, lowers the tem- 
perature of the mixture 79° F. 

Amalgams formed with disengage- 
ment of heat arc electro-negative with 
reference to the metals alloyed with the 
quicksilver. The products with absorp- 
tion of heat are electro-negative with ref- 
erence to the metals combined with the 
quicksilver; consequently, m a battery 
of elements of pure cadmium, and amal- 
gamated cadmium, the cadmium will be 
the negative pole; in case of zinc and 
amalgamated zinc, the zinc will be the 
positive pole. 

Heat decomposes all amalgams, va- 
porizing the mercury and leaving the 
metal alloys as a residue. 

Water is decomposed by the amal- 
gams of potassium and sodium, because 
the heat of formation of these amalgams, 
although considerable, is even less than 
the heat disengaged by potassium and 
sodium, on decomposing water. The 
alkaline amalgams may, therefore, serve 
as a source of nascent hydrogen in pres- 
ence of water, giving rise to an action 
less energetic, and often inure advan- 
tageous, than that of the alkaline metals 
alone. Thus is caused the frequent em- 
ployment of sodium amalgam for hydro- 
genizing a large number of bodies. As 
a consequence of their action on water, 
the_ alkaline amalgams are changed by 
moist air, with production of free alkafi 
or alkaline carbonate. 

Applications of Potassium Amalgams. 
~I- — They furnish a process for prepar- 
ing potassium by the decomposition of 
potash by the electric current, by em- 
ploying quicksilver as the cathode, and 
vaporizing the Quicksilver of the amal- 
gam formed by heating this in a current 
of dry hydrogen. 

.. M-— They can serve for the prepara- 
tion of the amalgams of the metals, other 
than those of the alkaline group by de- 
composing the salts of these metals, with 
formation of a salt of potash and of the 
amalgam of the metal corresponding to 
\he original salt. 

HI-— They ca » be employed as a 
of U w a V, r SC i? "J h ? d ™Z.™ ^ presence 
stanch Mrogenizing many sub- 

Applications of Sodium Amalgams.— 
Ihese are nearly the same as thofe of the 



potassium amalgams, but the 
amalgams are employed almo^ 80 ^ 11 ^ 
sively, because sodium is easi er to if Xcui - 
than potassium, and is cheaper m?** 
employments are the following-' e 

I. — Sodium amalgam furnishes n 
ess for the preparation of sodium i? 6 " 
soda is decomposed by means ? 
electric current ----- 01 th« 



soda is decomj: 

employing ~~ Q 7; 0 w, tbe 
as the cathode, and afterwards van ' ■ 



the quicksilver of the anid7 a £ P f° rizin « 
by heating this in a current of drvT 3 
drogen. ^ fl y* 

II. — Amalgams of sodium serve f 
the preparation of amalgams of the on? 
er metals, particularly alkaline earth 
metals and metals of high fusing point 
by decomposing the sal ts of these metals' 
with formation of a salt of soda and of 
the amalgam of the metal corresponding 
to the original salt. 

III. — They serve for amalgamating 
superficially the metals of high fusing 
point, called "refractory," such as iron 
and platinum, when a well-cleaned plate 
of these metals is immersed iu sodium 
amalgam in presence of water. 

IV. — An amalgam of 2 or 3 per cent of 
sodium is employed in the processes oi : 
extraction of gold by amalgamation. It 
has the property of rendering quick- 
silver more brilliant, and consequently 
more energetic, by acting as a deoxidant 
on the pellicle of oxide formed on its 
surface in presence of certain ores, 
which, by keeping it separated from the 
particles of gold, destroy its activity. 
Sodium amalgam of 3 per cent is utilized 
with success for the amalgamated plates 
employed in crushers and other appa- 
ratus for treating the ores of gold. If » 
few drops of this amalgam are spread 
on a plate of copper, of tin, or of znic, a 
brilliant coating of an amalgam of tin, 
copper, or zinc is immediately formed. 

V. — Amalgams of from 2 to 8 per cent 
of sodium serve frequently in Ia» Dra J 
ries for reducing or hydrogeniang or 
ganic combinations, without ™ n ™* 
the risk of a partial destruction ot tne 
compounds by too intense > ^° o % m 
may occur by employing iree 
instead of its amalgam, 

Applications of Barium Amalg^'T 
aese can, bv distillation, f uraJ g r pre - 



Th 



urn. 



paring this metal, which, when ttj ^ 
tained, almost always retains 
sodium. s 

Applications of Strontium ^ ^jed 
—These amalgams, washed _ aJ \ epaI a- 
rapidly immediately after tlieir F ^ 
tion, and then heated to a 



.AMALGAMS 



ren t of dry hydrogen, yield a 
of strontium. 



Application of Cadmium Amalgams 

"i i ,ms of cadmium, formed of cqi 



qual 



^"vhfs^of cadmium and quicksilver. 

h power of cohesion and are 



^■+ e malleable; the case is the same with 
I amalgam formed of 1 part of cad- 
aiul % parts of quicksilver. They 



an 

"fused as dental cements for plugging 
dr f° r same P ur P 03e an amalgam 
tfq j, ar ts of quicksilver, 1 part of cad- 
mium, and 2 parts of tin may be used. 

Applications of Zinc Amalgams.— The 
principal employment of zinc amalgams 
ij their use as a cathode or negative elec- 
trode in the batteries of Munson, Dan- 
iels, and Lechanehe. This combination 
is designed to render the zinc non-attack- 
able by the exciting liquid of the battery 
nth open circuit. The action of the 
mercury is to prevent the zinc from form- 
ing a large number of small voltaic ele- 
ments when foreign bodies are mingled 
with the metal; in a word, the giving to 
ordinary zinc the properties of pure zmc, 
and consequently of causing a great sav- 
ins? in expense. 

For amalgamating a zinc plate it is 
plunged for a few seconds into water in 
which there is one-sixteenth in volume 
of sulphuric acid, then rubbing with 
a copper-wire brush which has been 
dippedin the quicksilver. The mercury 
takea more readily on the zinc when, 
after the zinc has been cleaned with 
^ater sharpened with sulphuric acid, 
|p moistened with a solution of corro- 
fve _ sublimate, which is reduced and 
nmnshes a first very thin coat of amal- 
gam, oq wllich the quickgilver is im _ 

J^ately fixed by simple immersion 
Without rubbing. 

ant.,? I 1 nC of a ba ttery may be amalga- 
Ef h J Putting at the bottom of the 
a lift ! r ™ e " t . c °ntainiiig each element, 
rinn + qu l. cksilvcr in su ™ a way that the 
EL^ Clle i the liquid - Th « amalga- 
WmJ* ft cted under the influence of 
«n ct^A-u , tllls process applies only 
V W I at the zinc al °^ touches 
l^cksilv™ tbe vessel containing the 



S of Man ganese Amalgams. 

of aati„ may serve for the preparation 
*uffi c l*f * es< v. Por this purpose it is 



Wogen t0 Tu tm in a cu "-ent of pure 
' ^ form ' * manganese remains in 

*a ot a grayish powder. 

^E^ ons °* Tin Amalgams,— I.— 
^ittcli^ j B . ass ' TnJ s operation is 
V'Wflod m the following manner; 



87 



On 

s 



« spread out and Z^ZT^ 
quicksilver, 5 or 6 SI * Jth * %er o! 
ness. The gl ass is ^ m thick* 

sheet of tin fn SUc h ™ e y * 8 ld « pa the 
the excess of quicksilver? ^ d " Ve ofi 



surfaces are covered without" 



w ten the two 

tion of air, weightT ar^? 1 ^Posi- 
glass. In a few days 4 e P H? d ° U lhe 

II. An amalgam consisting of o n artll 
of zinc and 1 part tin may L used £ 
covering the cushions of frictionaf dS 
trie machines. This amalgam i % T l 
pared by first melting the zinc and tin £ 
a crucible and adding the quicksilver 
previously heated. 

III. — Mention has been made of the 
cadmium amalgam employed for plug- 
ging teeth, an amalgam of £ parts of 
quicksilver, % parts of tin, and 1 part <rf 
cadmium. For the same purpose an 
amalgam of tin, silver, and gold is em- 
ployed. (See also Cements, Dental.) 

Applications of Copper Amalgams.— 
I. — An amalgam of SO per cent of coppei 
has been employed for filling teeth. 
This use has been abandoned on account 
of the inconvenience occasioned by the 
great changeableness of the product. 

II. — The amalgam of 30 per cent of 
copper, designated by the name of "me- 
tallic mastic," is an excellent cement for 
repairing objects and utensils of porce- 
lain. For this employment, the broken 
surfaces are heated to 662° F., and a little 
of the amalgam, previously heated to the 
consistency of melted wax, is applied. 

III. — Copper amalgam, of 30 to 45 
per cent of copper, rendered plastic by 
heating and grinding, may serve for ob- 
taining with slight compression copies M 
delicate objects, which may, ^ 
ening of the amalgam, be reproduce^ 
either in wax or by galvanic P«>««J 

TV— According to Debray, wnen a 
medal obtained Vthan amalgam oj 
45 per cent of copper by compression 
thesoft state, in muldsofj J»ttjP«g d£ 
is heated progressively to tedn^B in 
atmosphere of hydrogen . the 
is volatilized gradually, and we p { ^ 

3 per come together wi 
in such a way as to produ 



ea g^" u ;;/ h ' e ; without fusion 
of copper come together^^^ ^ ul 

exclusively of me- 
tallic ■ ■ r^TVreold the 



j *-^« f nrmed exclusively o 
production formed 

Jlic copper, ot tnc °J lk of gol c. 
y.-In the { me ^ry y w f t h *«isJ»- 
ashers are J^^f OT S« 
I^ 6 * iT.Xn of these j*** 



crush 
ma 



old. The preparati 



88 



AMALGAMS 



Ufc are at least Ine SSSKf 

amalgam is replaced by anotWT 



3 delicate, requiring about two 
weeks They are freed from greasy mat- 
ter by rubbing with ashes, or, better, 
with a little sand and caustic soda, or it 
more rapid action is desired, with a clota 
dipped in dilute nitric acid; they are 
washed with water, then with a solution 
of potassium cyanide, and finally brushed 
with a mixture of sal ammoniac and a 
little quicksilver, until the surface is 
completely amalgamated. They are 
finally made to absorb as much quicK- 
gilver as possible. But the plates thus 
treated are useful for only a few days 
when they arc sufficiently covered with a 
layer of gold amalgam; in the meantime 
they occasion loss of time and of gold. 
So it is preferable to cover them arti- 
ficially with a little gold amalgam, which 
is prepared by dissolving gold in quick- 
silver. Sometimes the amalgam of gold 
is replaced by an amalgam of silver, 
which is readily poured and more eco- 
nomical. 

Another method giving better results 
consists in silvering copper slabs by elec- 
troplating and covering them with a layer 
of silver. Then it is only necessary to 
apply a little quicksilver, which adheres 
quite rapidly, so that they are ready for 
use almost immediately, and arc quite 
active at the outset. 

These amalgamation slabs ought to 
be cleaned before each operation. Po- 
tassium cyanide removes fatty matter, 
and sal ammoniac the oxides of the low 
metals. 

Applications of Lead Amalgams. — 
These meet with an interesting employ- 
ment for the autogenous soldering of 
lead. After the surfaces to be soldered 
have been well cleaned, a layer of lead 
amalgam is applied. It is afterwards 
sufficient to pass along the line of junc- 
tion a soldering iron heated to redness 
m order that the heat should cause the 
volatilization of the quicksilver, and that 
the lead, liberated in a state of fine divi- 
sion, should be melted and cause the 
adherence of the two surfaces. The 
only precaution necessary is to avoid 
breathing the mercurial vapor, which is 
quite poisonous. 

Applications of Bismuth Amalgams.— 
1 he amalgam formed of 1 per cent of 
bismuth and 4 parts of quicksilver will 
cause the strong adherence of glass It 
is employed with advantage in the tin- 
ning of glass globes. For this operation 
It is poured into a dry hot receiver, and 
then passed over the whole surface of 
tne glass; it solidifies on cooling. For 



posed of 9, parts of quicksilver T' Q ° tt " 
bismuth, 1 part of lead, and 1 m J 3 ^ °* 
The bismuth, broken into sKi 0 ! 1 *' 
ments, is added to the tin and lead e ' 
viously melted in the crucible anH 1 ? te * 
the mixture of the three metals h 11 
fluid, the quicksilver is poured in^vi 3 
stirring with an iron rod The i' 
ties floating on the surface are 
and when the temperature is suffici/3 
lowered this amalgam is slowly m -»rll 
into the vessels to be tinned, which ha 
been previously well cleaned and aliehS 
heated. M. Ditte recommends for fk 
same employment, as a very strong ad 
herent to the glass, an amalgam obtained 
by dissolving hot 2 parts of bismuth and 
1 part of lead in a solution of 1 part of 
tin in 10 parts of quicksilver. By cans- 
ing a quantity of this amalgam to move 
around the inside of a receiver, clean 
dry, and slightly heated, the surface -will 
be covered with a thin, brilliant layer, 
which hardens quite rapidly. 

For the injection of anatomical pieces 
an amalgam formed of 10 parts of quick- 
silver, 50 parts of bismuth, 31 pads of 
lead, and 18 parts of tin, fusible at 77.5° 
and solidifiable at 60° C, is made use of; 
or, again, an amalgam composed of 9 
parts of Darcet alloy and 1 part of quick- 
silver fusible at 127|°F., and pasty at a 
still lower temperature. This last amal- 
gam may also be used for filling carious 
teeth. The Darcet alloy, as known, con- 
tains 2 parts of bismuth, 1 part of lead, 
and 1 part of tin, and melts at 1964°*. 
The addition^ of 1_ part of quicksilver 
lowers the fusing point to 104° F. 

Applications of Silver Amalgams. 
In the silvering of mirrors by the ret 
jean method, which has almost UD1V< 
sally replaced tinning, the P r °P erty ke ^ 
silver in readily amalgamating is ta 
advantage of, by substituting the lW 
after silvering to the action ot a u 
solution of double cyanide ot mere j 



and potassium in such a manner 



ns to 



I i, r j]|i: : lit 

form an amalgam of white and Dru ^ 
silver adhering strongly to the g Ia s ■ ^ 
facilitate the operation and utilize » ^ 
silver, while economizing the. do t ^ e 
nide, M. Lenoir has recommend : 
following: Sprinkle the glass aJJ^jiJ 
when it is covered with the ' oW <jer. 
solution with very fine z, " c , " er iifld 
which precipitates the _qiucKSJ 
regulates the amalgamation- , u pr g}$o 

II.— The metallurgy ot 
takes advantage of the pro] 



silver J 
perty ot 



AMALGAMS 



89 



metal in combining cold with quicksil- 
ver; this for the treatment of poor silver 

0I j n the Saxon or Freiburg process for 
beating silver ores, recourse is had to 
Quicksilver in the case of amalgam in 
^ plfl [gam filing casks, in which the ore, 
after grinding, is shaken with disks of 
iron, and with mercury and water. The 
anja lgam, collected and filtered under 
strong pressure, contains from 30 to 33 
per cent of silver. It is distilled either 
in cylindrical retorts of cast iron, fur- 
nished with an exit tube immersed in 
the water for condensing the mercurial 
vapors, or on plates of iron, arranged 
over each other along a vertical iron 
stem, supported by a tripod at the bot- 
tom of a tank filled with water, and 
covered with an iron receiver, which is 
itself surrounded with ignited charcoal. 
It should be remarked that the last por- 
tions of quicksilver in a silver amalgam 
submitted to distillation are volatilized 
only under the action of a high, and pro- 
longed temperature. 

Applications of Gold Amalgams. — I. — ■ 
Gilding with quicksilver. This process 
of gilding, much employed formerly, is 
now but little used. It can be applied 
only to metals slightly fusible and capa- 
ble of amalgamation, like silver, copper, 
bronze, and brass. Iron can also be 
gilded by this method, provided it is 
previously covered with a coating of 
copper. To perform this gilding the 
surface is well cleaned, and the gold 
amalgam, consisting of 2, parts of gold 
and 1 part of quicksilver, prepared as 
mentioned before, is applied. The piece 
ia afterwards heated to about the red, so 
as to volatilize the mercury. The gold 
remains, superficially alloyed with the 
metal, and forms an extremely solid 
iay er of deadened gold, which can be 
anerwards polished. The volatilization 
^ould be effected under a chimney hav- 
ing strong draught, in order to avoid the 
poisonous action of the mercurial vapors. 
it„ ■ . e amalgamation of gold finds 
0 f P rin .cipal applications in the treatment 
sLn erous oros - Th e extraction of 
man. spangles of gold scattered in gold- 
di^V 1 ?* san ds is based on the ready 
on tfc ?° n of £° ld in quicksilver, and 
Bold if lorma tion of an amalgam of solid 
t 1 ^ ^pression and filtering through 

hVrM °£i Skin ' in a state more or less 
with t spangles of gold are shaken 

colleof i > " t thl " ir wei f?ht of quicksilver, 
mi ia the cavities of sluices and 

the » n i ■ a smal1 quantity of sand. 
K°W is dissolved and the sand re- 



separate the excess of m n ' SO as *• 
passes through Spores TtHkm^ 
yet again, it is filtered thro^l, « : i° r » 
funnel having a verv sWu g * a % l * ss 
almost capmiryTeTittn. 6 ^ 
cases an amalgam of solid go d remain^ 
which is submitted to the action of heat 
in a crucible or cast-iron retort 

Sfc-TS?* 7 ith a b ent-iron ?ube ^i 
which the extremity, surrounded with a 
cloth immersed in water, is arranged 
above a receiver half full of water 'f£ 
quicksilver is vaporized and condensed 
in the water. The gold remains in the 
retort. c 
The property of gold of combining 
readily with quicksilver is also used in 
many kinds of amalgamating apparatus 
for extraction and in the metallurgy of 
gold. e " / 

In various operations it is essential 
to keep the quicksilver active by preserv- 
ing its limpidity. For this purpose 
potassium cyanide and ammonium 
chloride are especially employed; some- 
times wood ashes, carbonate of soda, 
hyposulphite of soda, nitrate of potash, 
cupric sulphate, sea salt, and lime; the 
latter for precipitating the soluble sul- 
phates proceeding from the decomposi- 
tion of pyrites. 

The amalgamation of gold is favorec 
by a temperature of 38° to 45° C. (100° 
to 113° F.), and still more by the em- 
ployment of quicksilver in the nascent 
state. This last property is the base of 
the Designol process, which consists in 
treating auriferous or auro-argentiferous 
ores, first ground with sea salt, in revolv- 
ing cylinders of cast iron, with iron and 
mercury bichloride, in such a way that 
the mercury precipitated collects the gold 
and eventually the silver more effica. 
ciously. 

Gold Amalgam.— Eight parts of gold 
and 1 of mercury are formed into an 
amalgam for plating by rendering tne 
gold into thin plates, making it red hot, 
and then putting it into the mercury wtn]e 
the latter is also heated to ebullition. 
The gold immediately disappears in 
combination with the mercury, after 
which the mixture may be turned int< 
water to cool. It is then ready for use. 

Zinc Amalgam for Electric Batteries. 
—Dissolve 2 parts of mercury in 1 part 
of aqua regia. This accomplished ad< 
5 parts of hydrochloric acid This solo 
tion is made warm. It suffices to di 
the zinc to be amalgamated into tfl 
liquid only for a few seconds. 



90 



AMALGAMS— AMBER 



Amalgam for Cementing Glass, Por- 
r^aS Etc. -Take tin 2 parts, and cad- 
mum' f part. Fuse in an iron spoon 
£ some vessel of the same material 
When the two materials are m f usior, -add 
a little mercury, previously headed, t'lace 
Si in an iron crucible and boil, agitating 
the mass with a pestle. This amalgam 
ifsoTt and can be kneaded between the 
fingers. It may be employed for luting 
dais or porcelain vessels, as well as lor 
Sling teeth. It hardens m a short while. 



Lead, 25 parts; tin, 25 parts; bismuth 
25 parts; mercury, 25 parts; or lead, 20 
parts; tin, 20 parts; bismuth, 20 parts; 
mercury, 40 parts. Melt the lead and 
the tin, then add the bismuth; skim sev- 
eral limes and add the mercury, stirring 
the composition vigorously. 
(See also Mirror-Silvering). 

Copper Amalgam.— Copper amalgam, 
or so-called Viennese metal cement, crys- 
tallizes with the greatest readiness and 
acquires such hardness on solidifying 
that it can be polished like gold. The 
amalgam may also be worked under the 
hammer or between rollers; it can also 
be stamped, and retains its metallic luster 
for a long time in the air. In air con- 
taining hydrogen sulphide, however, it 
quickly tarnishes and turns black. A 
very special property of copper amalgam 
consists in that it becomes very soft when 
laid in water, and attains such pliancy 
that it can be employed for modeling the 
most delicate objects. After a few 
hours the amalgam congeals again into 
a very fine-grained, rather malleable 
mass. An important application of. 
copper amalgam is that for cementing 
metals. All that is necessary for this 
purpose is to heat the metals, which must 
be bright, to 80-90° C. (176-194° F.), to 
apply the amalgam and to press the metal 
pieces together. They will cohere as 
firmly as though soldered together. 

Copper amalgam may be prepared in 
the following manner: 

> Place strips of zinc in a solution of blue 
vitriol and agitate the solution thor- 
eughly. The copper thus obtained in 
the form of a very fine powder is washed 
and, while still moist, treated in a mor- 
tar with a solution of mercury nitrate. 
The copper powder thereby amalga- 
mates mon readily with the quicksilver. 
Next, hot water is poured over the cop- 
per, the mortar is kept hot, and the mer- 
cury added. Knead with the pestle of 
the mortar until the copper, pulverulent 
in the beginning, has united with the 
mercury into a very plastic mass. The 



longer the kneading is continued 
more uniform will be the mass. AT 
as the amalgam has acquired the suit ^ 
character— for its production 3 pari 
copper and 7 parts of mercury are i ° f 
— the water is poured off and the a i 
gam still soft is given the shape in ^ , 
ft is to be kept. P lD -w nie]l 

For cementing purposes, the amaW m 
is rolled out into small cylinders wh 
diameter is about 0.10 to 0.2 inches Tvitu 
a length of a few inches. I n order t 
produce with this amalgam impression! 
of castings, which are made after wood 
cuts, the amalgam is rolled out W 
into a thin plate and pressed firmly 
onto the likewise heated plaster cast 
After the amalgam has hardened the 
thin plate of it may be reinforced by 
pouring on molten type metal. 

Silver Amalgam. — Silver amalgam can 
easily be made with^ the help of finely 
powdered silver. The mercury need 
only be healed to 250° to 300° C. (482° 
to 572° F.); silver powder is then sprin- 
kled on it, and mixed with it by stirring. 
The vessel is heated for several minutes 
and then allowed to cool, the excess of 
mercury being removed from the granu- 
lated crystalline amalgam by pressing in 
a leather bag. Silver amalgam can also 
easi ly be made by dissolving silver in 
nitric acid, evaporating the solution till 
the excess of free acid is eliminated, di- 
luting with distilled water, and adding 
mercury to the fluid in the proportion of 
4 parts, by weight, of mercury to 1 of the 
silver originally used. The mercury 
precipitates ths silver in a metallic state, 
and immediately forms an amalgam wit* 
it; the fluid standing above after a time 
contains no more silver, but consists or 
a solution of mercury nitrate mixed wiw 
whatever copper was contained in t 
dissolved silver in the form of copper 

nitrate. The absence of a 

of hydrochloric 

in a test tube, shows that all the gj 
has been eliminated from the solujio 
and is present in the form of aniai c 



cipitate, if a few drops of nyarot w» 
acid are added to a sample oi tne u 



Amalgam for the Rubber of hiec 
Machines. -Mercury, 100 V^'^Lm 
parts; tin, 50 parts. 
reduced to powder and in Jf F rU bb<ff 
with grease can be applied to w 
of electric machines. 
AMALGAM GOLD PLATING: 
See Gilding under Plating. 

AMBER : , rpfu ilr t 

Imitation Amber.— Melt. enre^ 

gether pine rosin, 1 ; Iacca m 
white colophony, 15 parts. 



AMBER CEMENT— ANILINE STAINS 



AjtBBR CEMENT: 

■gee Adhesives under Cements. 

mM R VARNISH: 

"g ee Varnishes, 

AMBROSIA POWDER: 

See Salts (Effervescent). 

0LIVOL DEVELOPER: 

See Photography. 

AMETHYST (IMITATION): 

See Gems, Artificial. 

AMMOK'-CARBONITE : 

See Explosives. 



Ammonia 

Household Ammonia. — (See also House- 
hold Formulas.) — Household ammonia is 
simply diluted ammonia water to which 
borax and soap have been added. To 
make it cloudy add potassium nitrate 
or methylated spirit. The following are 
good formulas: 
L — Ammonia water .... 16 parts 

Yellow soap 64 parts 

Potassium nitrate. . . 1 part 
Soft water, sufficient 

to make 200 parts 

Shave up the soap and dissolve it in 
the water by heating, add the potassium 
nitrate and dissolve. Cool, strain, skim 
off any suds or bubbles, add the am- 
monia, mix, and bottle at once. 

II. — Yellow soap 10 grains 

Borax 1 drachm 

Lavender water. ... 30 minims 
Stronger ammonia 

water 0 ounces 

Water, enough to 

make 20 ounces 

Dissolve the soap and borax in 5 
ounces of boiling water; when cold add 
the lavender water and ammonia, and 
make up to a pint with water. 
HL— Methylated spirit. . . 1 gallon 

Soft water. . 1 gallon 

Stronger ammonia 

water 1 gallon 

— Ammonia water 5 pints 

Distilled water 5 pints 

Soap 100 grains 

Ohvc oil , .... 5 drachms 

.,^ ut the soap in shavings, boil with the 
" and water, cool, add the nmmonia 
J a te*, and bottle. For use in laundries, 
aths, and for general household pur- 
poses add one tablespoonful to one 
gallon of water. 



at 



V '77 The best quality: 

OiUfcitron.ua S drachms 

Dissolve the oils in the nl™l,~i j 
add to the water. To It lf d 
4 ounces of talc (or fuller's earth will 
answer), mix thoroughly, strain through 
canvas, and to the colate add 1 2 or 3 
gallons of ammonia water, according to 
the strength desired, in which has bee 
dissolved 1, 8, or 3 ounces of white curd 
or soft soap. 

Liquor Ammo nii Anisatus. — 

Oil of anise, by weight l part 

Alcohol, by weight 94 par- 

Water of ammonia, by weight. . 5 pa 

Dissolve the oil in the alcohol and a t 
the water of ammonia. 

It should be a clear, yellowish liqui 

Violet Color for Ammonia. — A purpl 
blue color may be given to amnion" 
water by adding an aqueous solutio 
of litmus. The shade, when pa* 
enough, will probably meet all views 
to a violet color. 

Perfumed Ammonia Water. — T 
following are typical formulas^ 

I. — Stronger water of am- 
monia 6 ounces 

Lavender water 1 ounce 

Soft soap 10 grains 

Water, enough to 

make 16 ounces 

II.— Soft soap 1 ounce 

Borax 8 draen 

Cologne water - . £ ounce 

Stronger water of am- 
monia H ounces 

Water, enough to 

make *2 ounces 

Rub up the soap and borax with water 
until dissolved, strain and add the other 
ingredients. The perfumes may be 
varied to suit the price. 
AMMONIA FOR FIXING PRINTS: 
See Photography. 

ANGOSTURA BITTERS: 
See Wines and Liquors. 

ANILINE : 
See Dyes. 

ANILINE IN PIGMENTS, TESTS FOR: 

See Pigments. 

ods. 



92 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



ANISE CORDIAL:. 

See Wines and Liquors. 

ANKARA: 

See Butter. 
ANNEALING OF STEEL, TOOLS, WIRE, 
AND SPRINGS: 
See Steel. 

ODYNES : 

See Pain Killers. 

rr DESTROYERS: 

See Insecticides. 



Antidotes for Poisons 

POISON, SYMPTOMS AND ANTI- 
DOTES. 

When a person has taken poison the 
first thing to do is to compel the patient 
to vomit, and for that purpose give any 
emetic that can be most readily and 
quickly obtained, and which is prompt 
and energetic, but safe in its action. 
For this purpose there is, perhaps, 
nothing better than a large teaspoonfiil 
of ground mustard in a tumblerful of 
warm waier, and it has the advantage of 
being almost always at hand. If the dry 
mustard is not to be had use mixed 
mustard from the mustard pot. Its 
operation may generally be facilitated 
by the addition of a like quantity of 
common table salt. If the mustard is 
not at hand, give two or three teaspoon- 
fuls of powdered alum in syrup or 
molasses, and give freely of warm water 
to drink; or give 10 to 20 grains of sul- 
phate of zinc (white vitriol), or 20 to 30 
grains of ipecac, with 1 or 2 grains of 
tartar emetic, in a large cup of warm 
water, and repeat every ten minutes until 
three or four doses are given, unless 
free vomiting is sooner produced. After 
vomiting has taken place large draughts 
of warm water should be given, so 
that the vomiting will continue until the 
poisonous substances have been thor- 
oughly evacuated, and then suitable anti- 
dotes should be given. If vomiting can- 
not be produced the stomach pump 
should be used . When it is known what 
particular kind of .poison has been swal- 
™X ' u en fte proper antidote for that 
poison should be given; but when this 
cannot be ascertained, as is often the 

cfned fredy ° f e . qUa - 1 P arts of cal- 
cined magnesia, pulverized charcoal, 

oulr t SqU ^° Xlde oi iron > in a sufficient 
quantity of water. This is a very harm- 

oenefat, as the ingredients, though very 



simple, are antidotes for the mn . t 
mon and active poisons. I n « im- 
mixture cannot be obtained the 
should be soothed and protected i acl3 
free administration of demulcent ^ 
laginous or oleaginous drinks, suchSf 
whites of eggs, milk, mucilage of ' 
arable, or slippery-elm bark fl 
tea, starch, wheat flour, or arr ^ 
mixed in water, linseed or oliv e °^i root 
melted butter or lard. Subsen ? r 
the bowels should be moved bv ** 
gentle laxative, as a tables pounfuf 1116 
two of castor oil, or a teaspoonful of n\ 
cined magnesia; and pain or other e ii 
dence of inflammation must be relievp 
by the administration of a few drops o 
laudanum, and the repeated applicant) 
of hot poultices, fomentations, and mus 
tard plasters. 

The following are the names of th 
substances that may give rise to poiso 
ing, most commonly used, and their auti 
dotes: 

Mineral Acids — Sulphuric Acid (0' 
of Vitriol), Nitric Acid (Aqua Fortis 
Muriatic Acid (Spirits of Salts).— Symp- 
toms: Acid 5> burning taste in the mouth, 
acute pain in the throat, stomach, and 
bowels; frequent vomiting, generally 
bloody; mouth and lips excoriated, 
shriveled, white or yellow; hiccough, 
copious stools, more or less bloody, with 
great tenderness in the abdomen; diffi- 
cult breathing, irregular pulse, excessive 
thirst, while drink increases the pain 
and rareW remains in the stomach; fre- 
quent but vain efforts to urinate; cold 
sweats, altered countenance; convul- 
sions, generally preceding death. iNitrje 
acid causes yellow stains; sulphuric 
acid, black ones. Treatment: Mix 
calcined magnesia in milk or water to tM 
consistence of cream, and give freely t 
drink a glassful every couple of minutes 
if it can be swallowed. Common soa 
(hard or soft), chalk, whiting,, or e y 
mortar from the wall mixed 111 , W Q 
may be given, until magnesia can om 
tained. Promote vomiting by ticiu 
the throat, if necessary, and vJl ?' 
poison is got rid of, flaxseed or sjJVft 
eim tea. cruel, or other nuW a ■ 



The inflammation which &lw>y»™ 
needs good treatment to save 
tient's life. 



folio 



Ox- 



Vegetable Acids— Acetic, CltX j^ tenS e 
alic, Tartaric. —Symptoms • afl d 
burning pain of mouth, tJir j^jy 
stomach; vomiting blood wnicn stu ^ or 
acid, violent purging, collapse' 
death. . t B teD 

Oxalic acid is frequently i« 



ANTIDOTES FOR- TYSONS 



jnistake for Epsom salts, to which in 
shops it often bears a strong resemblance. 
Treatment: Give chalk or magnesia in a 
large quantity of water, or large draughts 
of fiiae water. If these are not at hand, 
scrape the wall or ceiling, and give the 
scrapings mixed with water. 

Prussic or Hydrocyanic Acid — Laurel 
Water, Cyanide of Potassium, Bitter 
Almond Oil, Etc. — Symptoms: In large 
doses almost invariably instantaneously 
fatal; when not immediately fatal, sud- 
den loss of sense and control of the vol- 
untary muscles. The odor of the poison 
generally noticeable on the breath. 
Treatment: Chlorine, in the form of 
chlorine water, in doses of from 1 to 4 
fluidrachms, diluted. Weak solution 
of chloride lime of soda; water of am- 
monia (spirits of hartshorn), largely 
diluted, may be given, and the vapor of it 
cautiously inhaled. Cold affusion, and 
chloroform in half to teaspoonful doses 
in glycerine or mucilage, repeated every 
few minutes, until the symptoms are 
ameliorated. Artificial respiration. 

Aconite — Monkshood, Wolfsbane. — 
Symptoms: Numbness and tingling in 
the mouth and throat, and afterwards in 
other portions of the body, with sore 
throat, pain over the stomach, and vom- 
iting; dimness of vision, dizziness, great 
prostration, loss of sensibility, and de- 
lirium. Treatment: An emetic and 
then brandy in tablespoonful doses, in 
ice water, every half hour ; spirits of 
ammonia in half-teaspoonf ul doses in 
hke manner; the cold douche over the 
head and chest, warmth to the extrem- 
ities, etc. 

Alkalis and Their Salts — Concen- 
l ted A Lye ' Wood -ash Lye, Caustic Pot- 
ash, Ammonia, Hartshorn. — Symptoms: 
taustic, acrid taste, excessive heat m 
iHe throat, stomach, and intestines; 
vomiting of bloody matter, cold sweats, 
fjjecough, purging of bloody stools. 
J-reatmenf. The common vegetable 
acida. Common vinegar, being always 
m hand, is most frequently used. The 
jxed oils, as castor, flaxseed, almond, 
ana ohve oils form soaps with the alka- 

eff + rSS. ua also destr °y tneir caustic 
nect. They should be given in large 



quantity. 



tar ^ °. ny and Its Preparations— Tar- 
Mir. i etlc « . Antimoaial Wine, Kerme's 

ineral Symptoms: Faintness and 

™. ea - s »on followed by painful and 
con t - ■ VOITlitin K. severe diarrhea, 
thp^K Ctl ° n and burning sensation in 
e throat, cramps, or spasmodic twitel 



often terminating in death <r> str ' in 8 t ^. 
If vomiting has not kT Tr f atm ent 
should be eVeted hy tkSuf tW^' 
and administering Lp&^jS™ 
warm water. Astringent inf us? on f SUc 
as of gall, oak bark, Peruvian bark a( . 
as antidotes, and should be given prompt 
ly. Powdered yellow bark may be usV c 
until the infusion is prepared? or Ten 
strong green tea should %e given TV 
stop the vomiting, should it continue 
blister over the stomach by applying a 
cloth wet with strong spirits of hartshon 
and then sprinkle on one-eighth to 01 
fourth of a grain of morphia. 

Arsenic and Its Preparations— Rate 
bane, Fowler's Solution, Etc.— Symt 
toms: Generally within an hour pat 
and heat are felt in the stomach, soc 
followed by vomiting, with a burnii 
dryness of the throat and great thirs 
the matters vomited are generally colore 
either green yellow, or brown, and a: 
sometimes bloody. Diarrhea or dys 
entery ensues, while the pulse become 
small and rapid, yet irregular. Bieatl 
ing much oppressed; difficulty in voi 
iting may occur, while cramps, conver- 
sions, or even paralysis often precec 
death, which sometimes takes plac^ witl 
in five or six hours after arsenic has bee 
taken. Treatment : Give a promi 
emetic, and then hydrate of peroxide 
iron (recently prepared) in tablespooi 
ful doses every 10 or 15 minutes until tl 
urgent symptoms are relieved. _ In tl 
absence of this, or while it is being pre 
pared, give large draughts of new mill 
and rvw eggs, lime water and oil, meltet 
butter, magnesia in a large quantity o: 
water, or even if nothing else is at hand, 
flour and water, always^ however, giT 
ing an emetic the first thing, or causir 
vomiting bv tickling the throat with 
feather, etc. The inflammation of th€ 
stomach which follows must be treated 
by blisters, hot fomentations, muci- 
laginous drinks, and the like. 

Belladonna, or Deadly Nightshade 
Symptoms: Dryness of J [he rnouth anc 
throat, great thirst, difficulty of swal- 
lowing, nausea, dimness, confusion oi 
loss o! vision, great enlargement of the 
pupils, dizziness, de hnum and coma. 
Treatment: There is no known anti- 
dote Give a prompt emetic and tnei 
reliance must £e placed on ccntinua. 
stimulation with brandy, whisky etc. 
and to necessarv artificial respiration. 
Opium and its preparations as morphia, 
laudanum, etc., are thought by some to 



94 



anttdotes for POISONS 



^mmteroct the effect of belladonna, and 
mav be Riven in small and repeated doses, 
S also strong black coffee and green tea- 
Blue Vitriol, or Blue Stone.— See Cop- 
per. 

Cantharides (Spanish or Blistering 
Fly) and Modern Potato Bug.-Symp- 
S: Sickening odor of the breath 
sour taste, with burning heat in the 
throat, stomach, and bowels; frequent 
vomiting, often bloody; copious blood, 
stools, great pain in the stomach, with 
burning" sensation in the bladder and 
difficulty to" urinate followed with ter- 
rible convulsions, delirium, and death. 
Treatment: Excite vomiting by drinking 
plentifully of sweet oil or other whole- 
some oils, sugar and water, milk, or 
slippery-elm tea; give injections ot castor 
oil and starch, or warm milk. I he in- 
flammatory symptoms which generally 
follow must be treated by a physician. 
Camphorated oil or camphorated spirits 
should be rubbed over the bowels, stom- 
ach, and thighs. 

Caustic Potash.— See Alkalis under this 
title. 

Cobalt, or Fly Powder. — Symptoms; 
Heat and pain in the throat and stomach, 
violent retching and vomiting, cold and 
clammy skin, small and feeble pulse, 
hurried and difficult breathing, diar- 
rhea, etc. Treatment: An emetic, fol- 
lowed by the free administration of milk, 
eggs, wheat flour and water, and muci- 
laginous drinks. 

Copper — Blue Vitriol, Verdigris or 
Pickles or Food Cooked in Copper Ves- 
sels. — Symptoms: General inflamma- 
tion of the alimentary canal, suppres- 
sion of urine; hiccough, a disagreeable 
metallic taste, vomiting, violent colic, 
excessive thirst, sense of tightness of the 
throat, anxiety; faintness, giddiness, 
and cramps and convulsions generally 
precede death. Treatment: Large 
doses of simple syrup as warm as can be 
swallowed, until the stomach rejects the 
amount it contains. The whites of eggs 
and large quantities of milk. Hydrated 
peroxide of iron. 

Creosote— Carbolic Acid.— Symptoi 
Burning pain, acrid, pungent ta; 



thirst, 
ment: 



ms: 

gent taste, 
vomiting, purging, etc. Treat- 
—- An emetic and the free adminis- 
tration of albumen, as the whites of esss 
or, in the absence of these, milk, or flour 
and water. 

Corrosive Sublimate.— See Mercury 
*nder this title. ' 



Deadly Wightsbade.— See Bell».i 
tder this title. "Wado 



unde« 



n na 



Foxglove, or Digitalis.— S VTnnt 
Loss of strength, feeble, flutte r iX° ^ 
faintness, nausea and vo mi tine an 1 * 
por ; cold perspiration, dilated d,,?} 1 * 
sighing, irregular breathing, and s 1 
times convulsions. Treatment- 
vomiting give brandy and ammonia l £ 
frequently repeated doses, apply Wai l? 
to the extremities, and if necessary resin 
to artificial respiration. 11 

Gases — Carbonic Acid, Chlorine Cv 
anogen, Hydrosulphuric Acid, £tc 
Symptoms: Great drowsiness, difficult 
respiration, ieatures swollen, face bhi 
as in strangulation. Treatment: Arti! 
ficial respiration, cold douche, f rictio * 
with stimulating substances to the sm. 
face of the body. Inhalation of steaxn 
containing preparations of ammonia. 
Cupping from nape of neck. Interna 
use of chloroform. 

Hellebore, or Indian Poke. — Symp- 
toms: Violent vomiting and purging, 
bloody stools, great anxiety, tremors, 
vertigo, fainting, sinking of the pulse, 
cold sweats, and convulsions. Treat- 
ment: Excite speedy vomiting by Iarg 
draughts of warm water, molasses and 
water, tickling the throat with the finge 
or a feather, and emetics; give oily an 
mucilaginous drinks, oily purg; 
and clysters, acids, strong coffee, 
phor, and opium. 

Hemlock (Conium). — Symptoms: 
ness of the throat, tremors, dizzines 
difficulty of swallowing, prostration, an 
faintness, limbs powerless or paralyzed 
pupils dilated, pulse rapid and feeble 
insensibility and convulsions sometim 
precede death. Treatment: Empty tt 
stomach and give brandy in tablespooi 
ful doses, with half teaspoonful of spin 
of ammonia, frequently repeated, a 
if much pain and vomiting, g lve , D ' 
mide of ammonium in 5-gram . oc* 
every half hour. Artificial respirau 
may be required. 

Henbane, or Hyoscyamus. — jSy^P 
toms: Muscular twitching, ^W^d 
articulate plainly, dimness of vis . 
stupor; later, vomiting and 
small intermittent pulse, c c0D) a. 
movement of the extremities, ai igon . 
Treatment: Similar to opium p 
ing, which see. , 

Iodine. —Symptoms : B u ^? in | t SS?ch- 
throat, lacerating pain in the te „. 
fruitless effort to vomit, e - x ^ rea trae D 
derness of the epigastrium. 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



pj. e e emesis, prompt administration of 
starch, wheat flour, or arrowroot, beaten 
u p in water. 

Lead— Acetate of Lead, Sugar of Lead, 
ivy White Lead, Red Lead, Litharge, or 
Picldes, Wine, or Vinegar Sweetened by 
Lead. — Symptoms: W hen taken in lar^e 
doses, a sweet, but astringent metallic 
taste exists, with constriction in the 
throat, pain in the region of the stomach, 
painful, obstinate, and frequently bloody 
vomitings, hiccough, convulsions or 
spasms, and death. When taken in 
small but long-continued doses it pro- 
duces colic, called painters' colic; great 
pain, obstinate constipation, and in ex- 
treme cases paralytic symptoms, es- 
pecially wrist-drop, with a blue line along 
the edge of the gums. Treatment: To 
counteract the poison give alum in water 
ounce to a quart; or, better still, Ep- 
som salts or Glauber's salts, an ounce of 
cither in a quart of water; or dilute sul- 
phuric acid, a teaspoonful to a quart of 
water. If a large quantity of sugar of 
lead has been recently taken, empty the 
stomach by an emetic of sulphate of zinc 
(1 drachm in a qvr.rt oi water), giving 
one-fourth to commence, and repeating 
smaller doses until free vomiting is pro- 
duced; castor oil should be given to clear 
the bowels and injections of oil and 
starch freely administered. If the body 
is cold use the warm bath. 

Meadow Saffron.— See Belladonna. 
Laudanum. — See Opium. 

Lobelia — Indian Poke. — Symptoms : 
recessive vomiting and purging, pains 
in the bowels, contraction of the pupils, 
delirium, coma, and convulsions. Treat- 
ment: Mustard over the stomach, and 
brandy and ammonia. 

Mercury— Corrosive Sublimate (bug 
poisons frequently contain this poison), 
*ea Precipitate, Chinese or English 
vermilion.— Symptoms: Acrid, metallic 
»ste in the mouth, immediate constric- 
tion and burning in the throat, with anx- 
ety and tearing pains in both stomach 
ana bowels, sickness, and vomiting of 
JJ? 10 , us - c °lored fluids, and sometimes 
ficuh an j P ro . fuse diarrhea, with dif- 
Gni T an i P a * n in urinating; pulse 
er^rY^ 11, and haTd '- faJn t sensations, 
coS hty > diffi cult breathing, cramps, 
TVT . Sweats , syncope, and convulsions. 

teadv ?t! If v . omitin f? does al " 
wjf exist, emetics must be given im- 

larn« i y—wnite of e £8 s in continuous 
vJ^e (loses, and infusion of catechu after- 
arda, sweet milk, mixtures of flour and 



water in successive cunfnU • j x , 
excessive salivation SEt a to chcci 

chlorate of potash hi « tu JSl °? UCG ° 
and use freely as a «r«J j ° f water 

Morphine.— See Opium 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Caustic 

Symptoms: Intense pain and v omft " 
and purging of blood, mucus, aS^bS* 
of mucous membranes; and if these st^ 
hey become dark. Treatment: Gi 
freely of a solution of common salt i 
water which decomposes the poiso 
and afterwards flaxseed or sHpperv-eli 
bark tea and after a while a dose 
castor Oil. 

Opium and All Its Compounds- 
morpnme, Laudanum, Paregoric Etc - 
Symptoms: Giddiness, drowsiness *h 
creasing to stupor, and insensibi'lit 
pulse usually, at first, quick and i 
regular, and breathing hurried, ai 
afterwards pulse slow and feeble', ar. 
respiration slow and noisy; the pupils ar 
contracted and the eyes and face cor 
gested, and later, as death approache, 
the extremities become cold, the surfac 
is covered with cold, clammy perspire 
tion, and the sphincters relax. The 
fecta of opium and its preparations, 
poisonous doses, appear in from a hi 
to two hours from its administrator 
Treatment: Empty the stomach imme 
diately with an emetic or with the stoi 
ach pump. Then give very stror 
coffee without milk; put mustard plaster 
on the wrists and ankles; douche the hea 
and chest with cold water, and if tl 
patient is cold and sinking, give brandy 
or whisky and ammonia. Belladonna i 
thought by many to counteract the poi 
sonous effects of opium, and may r" 
given in doses of half to a teaspoonful 
the tincture, or 2 grains of the extract 
every 20 minutes, until some effect V 
observed in causing the pupils to 
pand. Use warmth and friction, anc 
if possible prevent sleep for some hours, 
for which purpose the patient shomd 
be walked about between two persons 
Finally, as a last resort, use artificial 
respiration, persistence in which will some- 
times be rewarded with success in a F 
parently hopeless cases. Electricity shoi 
also be tried. _ yT ... , 

Coolcy advises as follows: Vomitim 
must be induced as soon as PP^iWe, b 3 
means of a strong emetic and tickling he 
fauces. If this does not succeed, the 
stomach pump should ^ applied. The 
emetic may consist of a half drachm < 
sulphate of zinc dissolved m a half pint 
of warm water, of which one-third should 



96 



ANTIDOTES FOB POISONS 



he taken at once, and the remainder at 



commences. 



the - 

m ;mit(«i until vomiting 
When there ?s much drowliness or stupor 
I ox 3 fluidrachms of tincture > q .capsi- 
cum will be found a useful addition; or 
nnTof the formulas for emetic draughts 
may be token instead. Infusion of galls 
dJchona, or oak bark should be freely 
administered before . the emetic and 
water soured with vinegar and lemon 
jSct after the stomach has been well 
cKared out. To rouse the system 
spirit and water or strong coffee may be 
given- To keep the sufferer awake, 
rough friction should be applied to the 
skin, an upright posture preserved, and 
walking exercise enforced, if necessary. 
When this is ineffectual cold water may 
be dashed over the chest, head, and 
spine, or mild shocks of electricity may 
be had recourse to. To allow the suffer- 
er to sleep is to abandon him to destruc- 
tion. Bleeding may _ be subsequently 
necessary in plethoric habits, or m 
threatened congestion. The costiveness 
that accompanies convalescence may be 
best met by aromatic aperients; and the 
general tone of the habit restored by stim- 
ulating tonics and the shower bath. 
The smallest fatal dose of opium in the 
case of an adult within our recollection 
was 4$ grains. Children are much more 
susceptible to the action of opium than 
of other medicines, and hence the dose of 
it for them must be diminished consid- 
erably below that indicated by the com- 
mon method of calculation depending on 
the age. 

Oxalic Acid. — See Acids. 

Phosphorus — Found in Lucifer 
Matches and Some Rat Poisons. — Symp- 
toms: Symptoms of irritant poisoning; 
pain in the stomach and bowels; vomit- 
ing, diarrhea; tenderness and tension 
of the abdomen. Treatment; An emetic 
is to be promptly given; copious draughts 
containing magnesia in suspension; mu- 
cilaginous drinks. General treatment 
for inflammatory symptoms. 

Poisonous Mushrooms. — Symptoms: 
Nausea, heat and pains in the stomach 
and bowels; vomiting and purging, 
thiTst, convulsions, and faintings; pulse 
small and frequent, dilated pupil and 
stupor, cold sweats and death. Treat- 
ment: The stomach and bowels are to be 
cleared by an emetic of ground mustard 
or sulphate of zinc, followed by frequent 
doses of Glauber's or of Epsom salts, and 
large stimulating clysters. After the 
poison is evacuated, either may be given 
with small quantities of brandy and 



water. But if inflammatory s Ym . 
manifest themselves auch stimuli *ih 
be avoided, and these symptoms 1 d 
priately treated. A hypodermic iniS£°" 
of -fa gram of atropine is the latest diadowT 0 ? 
antidote. VL ™1 

Potash. — Sec Alkali. 

Prussic or Hydrocyanic Acid c 
Acids. 

Poison Ivy. —Symptoms: Contact 
with, and with many persons the near 
approach to, the vine gives rise to vio- 
lent erysipelatous inflammation, csne" 
cially of the face and hands, attended 
with itching, redness, burning, and swell 
ing, with watery blisters. Treatment. 
Give saline laxatives, and apply W ea'' 
sugar of lead and laudanum, or Hmcwate 
ana sweet oil, or bathe the parts freely wi 
spirits of niter. Anointing with oil ' 
prevent poisoning from it. 

Saltpeter (Bfitrate of Potash).— Symp. 
toms: Only poisonous in large quanti- 
ties, and then causes nausea, painfiji 
vomiting, purging, convulsions, faint- 
ness, feeble pulse, cold feet and hands, 
with tearing pains in stomach and bowels. 
Treatment: Treat as is directed for 
arsenic, for there is no antidote known, 
and emptying the stomach and bowels 
with mild drinks must be relied on. 

Savine. — Symptoms: Sharp pains in 
the bowels, hot skin, rapid pulse, violent 
vomiting and sometimes purging, with 
great prostration. Treatment: Mus- 
tard and hot fomentations over the 
stomach and bowels and ice allowed 
in the stomach only until the inflam- 
mation ceases. If prostration comes on, 
food and stimulants must he given DJ 
injection. 

Stramonium, Thorn Apple, or James- 
town Weed. —Symptoms : Vertigo, mm 
ache, perversion of vision, slight ; dear 
ium, sense of suffocation, disposition w 
sleep, bowels relaxed, and all ss f 
augmented. Treatment: ^ TVU 
belladonna. 

Snake Bites, Cure for. -The Inspect* 
of Police in the Bengal Gpyern»ent^ 
ports that of 939 cases in which ajj 
was freely administered, 207 victim^ 
recovered, and in the cured jnstoi ^ 
remedy was not administered i - 
3* hours after the attack; on tl«e » diD 
of the fatal cases the corresp 
duration of time was 4* hours. 

The en 0 

Strychnine or Nux Vomica.— in f - 
aeteristic symptom is the S P g g y|g 
ence exerted upon the nervou 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



which is manifested by a general con- 
t action of all the muscles of the body, 
• th rigidity of the spinal column. A 
nrofaund calm soon succeeds, which is 
P n oVV -ed by a new tetanic seizure, longer 
thm the first, during which the respira- 
tion is suspended. These symptoms 
then cease, the breathing becomes easy, 
and there is stupor, followed by another 
general contraction. In fatal cases 
these attacks are renewed, at intervals, 
with increasing violence, until death en- 
sues. One phenomenon which is found 
only in poisonings by substances con- 
taining strychnine is that touching any 
part of the body, or even threatening 
to do so, instantly produces the tetanic 
spasm. Antidote: The stomach should 
be immediately cleared by means of an 
emetic, tickling the fauces, etc. To 
counteract the asphyxia from tetanus, 
etc., artificial respiration should be 
practiced with diligence and care. "If 
the poison has been applied externally, 
we ought immediately to cauterize the 
part, and apply a ligature tightly above 
the wound. If the poison has been 
swallowed for some time we should give 
a purgative clyster, and administer 
draughts containing sulphuric ether or 
oil of turpentine, which in most cases 
Droducc a salutary effect. Lastly, in- 
ections of chlorine and decoction of 
tannin are of value." 

According to Ch. Gunther the great- 
est reliance may be placed on full doses 
of opium, assisted by venesection, in 
cases of poisoning by strychnia or nux 
vomica. His plan is to administer this 
drug in the form of solution or mix- 
ture, in combination with a saline ape- 
rient. 

Another treatment is to give, if obtain- 
able, 1 ounce or more of bone charcoal 
mixed with water, and follow with an 
active emetic; then to give chloroform in 
teaspoonful doses, in flour and water or 
glycerine, every few minutes while the 
spasms last, and afterwards biandy and 
stimulants, and warmth of the extremi- 
ties if necessary. Recoveries have fol- 
lowed the free and prompt administra- 
tion of oils or melted butter or lard. In 
all cases empty the stomach if possible. 

Sulphate of Zinc— White Vitriol.— See 
iinc. 

Tin— Chloride of Tin, Solution of Tin 
lused by dyers), Oxide of Tin, or Putty 
i 0 y^5 e^ • — Symptoms: Vomiting, pains 
Q the stomach, anxiety, restlessness, fre- 
quent pulse, delirium, etc. Treatment: 
^mpty the stomach, and give whites of 
e ggs in water, milk in large quantities, 



Trcat- 



or flour beaten ur i n watpr ^n, 
nesia or chalk. F ateF ' Wltt ma S" 

Tartar Emetic. -See Antimony. 

Tobacco. -Symptoms: Vertigo, stu 1 
por, fainting, nausea, vomitine 
nervous _ debility, cold sweat, 
and at times fatal prostration 
ment: After the stomach is empty anrjh 
mustard to the abdomen and to the ex- 
tremities, and give strong coffee, with 
brandy and other stimulants, with 
warmth to the extremities. 

Zinc— Oxide of Zinc, Sulphate m 
Zmc, White Vitriol, Acetate of Zinc- 
Symptoms: Violent vomiting, astrin- 
gent taste, burning pain in the stomach, 
pale countenance, cold extremities, dull 
eyes, fluttering pulse. Death seldoi 
ensues, in consequence of the emeti< 
effect. Treatment: The vomiting maj 
be relieved by copious draughts of warm 
water. _ Carbonate of soda, administered 
in solution, will decompose the sulphate 
of zinc. Milk and albumen will also ac 
as antidotes. General principles to b« 
observed in the subsequent treatment 

Woorara. — Symptoms: When takei 
into the stomach it is inert; when al 
sorbed through a wound it causes sudde 
stupor and insensibility, frothing at tl 
mouth, and speedy death. Treatment 
Suck the wound immediately, or cut 
out and tie a cord around the limb be 
tween the wound and the heart. Appbp 
iodine, or iodide of potassium, and give ' 
internally, and try artificial respiration. 

ANTIFERMENTS. 

The following are tried and usefi 
formulas: 

I. — Sulphite (not sulphate) of lime, 
in fine powder, 1 part; marble dust, 
trround oyster shells, or chalk, 7 parts 
mix, and pack tight, so as to exclude the 

ai n._ Sulphite (not sulphate) ofpotassa, 
1 part; new black-mustard seed (grountf 
in a pepper mill), 7 parts; mix, and pack 
so as to exclude afi ; and moisture ^ per- 
fectly. Dose (of either), £ ounce to 14 
ounces per hogshead. , .' 

HI.— Mustard seed, 14 pounds; clove 
and capsicum, of each, 1* pounds mi, 
and crind them to powder m a pep 
per nSlh Dose, 1 to J pound per hogs 

Aoortion of any one of these compounds 
adirto'cider, or the like soon alUy- 
fermentation, when «g7J M S 
it V>aa Vicpn renewed. J- ne nrtl1 , . 
£ Preferred when there is a tendency tc 
is pret erre °,; J nd and third may be 
Svan^eoisV Sd for wine and bee, r - 



well as for cider. The third compound 
ffreatlv improves the flavor and the ap- 
parent strength of the liquor, and also 
improves its keeping qualities. 



Anchovy Preparations 

Extemporaneous Anchovy Sauce.— 
Anchovies, chopped 

small 3 or 4 

Butter 3 ounces 

Water » ounces 

Vinegar 1 ounce 

piour 1 ounce 

Mix, place over the fire, and stir until 
the mixture thickens. Then rub through 
a coarse sieve. 

Essence of Anchovies. — Remove the 
bones from 1 pound of anchovies, reduce 
the remaining portions of the fish to a 
pulp iu a Wedgewood mortar, and pass 
through a clean hair or brass sieve. Boil 
the bones and other portions which will 
not pass through the sieve in Ipint of 
■water for 15 minutes, and strain. To 
the strained liquor add 2J ounces of salt 
and 21 ounces of flour, and the pulped 
anchovies. Let the whole simmer over 
the fire for three or four minutes; re- 
move from the fire, and when the mix- 
ture has cooled a little add 4 ounces of 
strong vinegar. The product (nearly 
8 pounds) may be then bottled, and the 
corks tied over with bladder, and either 
waxed or capsuled. 

Anchovy Paste. — 

Anchovies 7 pounds 

Water 9 pints 

Salt l pound 

Flour 1 pound 

Capsicum J ounce 

Grated lemon peel. . . 1 

Mushroom catsup. . . 4 ounces 

Anchovy Butter. — 
Anchovies, boned and 

beaten to a paste . . 1 part 

Butter 2 parts 

Spice enough 

ANTIFOULING COMPOSITIONS : 
See Paints. 

ANTIFREE ZING SOLUTION : 

See Freezing Preventives. 

ANTIFRICTION METAL: 

See Alloys, under Phosphor Bronze 
and Antifriction Metals. 



ANTIQUES, TO PRESERVE. 

The best process for the preservation 
of antique metallic articles consists in 
retransformation of the metallic oxide* 
into metal by the electrolytic methoT 
For this purpose a zinc strip i a wounri 
around the article and the latter is ] a.iH 
in a soda-lye solution of 5 per cent 
suspended as the negative pole of a small 
battery in a potassium cyanide solution 
of 2 per cent. Where this method does 
not seem practicable it is advisable to 
edulcorate the objects in running water 
in which operation fragile or easilv de- 
stroyed articles may be protected hi 
winding with gauze; next, they should 
be carefully dried, first in the air, then 
with moderate heat, and finally protected 
from further destruction by immersion 
in melted parafline. A dry place is re- 
quired for storing the articles, since par- 
affine is not perfectly impermeable to 
water in the shape of steam. 

ANTIRUST COMPOSITIONS: 

Sec Rust Preventives. 



Antiseptics 

Antiseptic Powders. — 

I. — Borax 3 

Dried alum ....... 3 

Thymol 22 

Eucalvptol 20 

Mentliol . 1| 

Phenol 15 

Oil of gaultberia. . . 4 
Carmine to give a pink tint 

II. — Alum, powdered. . 50 

Borax, powdered 50 

Carbolic acid, crystals ... 5 

Oil of eucalyptus -5 

Oil of wintergreen 5 

Menthol 5 

Thymol 5 J 

III. — Boracieacid 10 ounces 

Sodium biborate. . - 4 ounces 

Alum 1 ounce 

Zinc sulphocarbolate 1 ounce 

Thymic acid 1 drachm 

Mix thoroughly. For an antiseptic 
wash dissolve 1 or 2 drachms in a qua" 
of warm water. 

I V.— Ektogan is a new dusting P oWt \j 
which is a mixture of zinc hydroxide <i 
dioxide. It is equivalent to about 
cent of active oxygen. It is a yelloWisx« 
white odorless and tasteless powder, 
soluble in water. It is used externally. ■>» 
wounds and in skin diseases as a w ^ 
dressing mixed with citric, tartaric, 



ounces 

ounces 

grains 

drops 

grains 

grains 

dropb 



ANTISEPTICS 



&9 



n j C acid, which causes the liberation 
f oxygen. With iodides it liberates 
"odine. It ^ s stated to be strongly anti- 
septic; it is used in the form of a powder, 
a gauze, and a plaster. 

Antiseptic Pencils. — ■ 

j.— Tannin q- s. 

Alcohol, q. s 1 part 

Ether, q. s 3 parts 

JIake into a mass, using as an excip 
ient the alcohol and ether previously 
mixed. Roll into pencils of the desired 
length and thickness. Then coat with 
collodion, roll in pure silver leaf, and 
finally coat with the following solution of 
gelatine and set aside to dry: 

Gelatine 1 drachm 

Water 1 pint 

Dissolve by the aid of a genlle heat. 
When wanted for use, shave away a 
portion of the covering, dip the pencil 
into tepid water and apply. 

II. — Pencils for stopping bleeding are 
prepared by mixing: 

Purified alum. ... 480 ~\ 

Borax.. 24 

Oxide zinc , . %\ 

Thymol 8 

Formalin 4 

Melting carefully in a water bath, add- 
ing some perfume, and forming mixture 
into pencils or cones. 

A very convenient way to form into 
pencils where no mold need be made is 
to take a small glass tube, roll a piece of 
oil paper around the tube, remove the 
glass tube, crimp the paper tube thus 
formed on one end and stand it on end 
or in a bottle, and pour the melted so- 
lution in it and leave until cool, then re- 
move the paper. 

, Antiseptic Paste (Poison) for Organic 
specimens. — 

(a) Wheat flour 16 ounces 

Beat to a batter with 

cold water 16 fluidounces 

Then pour into boil- 

a r. *i Bg water 32 fluidounces 

\o) Pulverized gum ar- 
able 

Dissolve in boil- 

W Pulverized alum. . . 
Dissolve in boil- 

tJ\ \ ' ng wator 4 fluidounces 

W Acetate of lead .... 2 ounces 
Dissolve in boil- 
ing water 4 fluidounces 

\e) Corrosive sublimate 10 (Trains 
Hix (a) and (b) while hot and continue 
simmer; meanwhile stir in (c> and 



2 ounces 

4 fluidounces 
^ ounces 



to 



mix thoroughly; then add (dS 

ous. lt*J^«^^**£> 
Z^etl g ° rgMUC tl3SUe ' ^™£lt 

Mouth Antiseptics. — I. — Thymic acid 

25 centigrams (3i_g rams): h J™ « J 
3 grams (45 grams); esscnce of 
permint, 75 centigrams (10 minims^ 
tincture of eucalyptus, 15 grams (44 
drachms) ; a cohol 100 grams (3 ounces) 
I ut sufficient in a glass of water to render 
latter milky. 

II.— Tannin, 12 gratns (3 drachms); 
menthol, 8 grams (2 drachms); thvmol 
1 gram (15 grains); tincture benzoin, 6 
grams (90 minims); alcohol, 100 grams 
(3 ounces). Ten drops in a half-glassful 
of tepid water. 

See also Dentifrices for Mouth 
Washes. 

Antiseptic Paste.— Difficulty is often 
experienced in applying an antiseptic 
dressing to moist surfaces, such as the 
lips after operation for harelip. A paste 
for this purpose is described by its origi- 
nator, Socin. The composition is: Zine 
oxide, 50 parts; zinc chloride, 5 parts- 
distilled water, 50 parts. The paste is 
applied to the wound, previously dried 
by means of a brush or spatula, allowed 
to dry on, and to remain in place five ©r 
six days. It may then be removed and 
a fresh application made. 

Potassium bicar- 
bonate 32.0 grams 

Sodium benzoate . . 32.0 grams 

Sodium borate. .... 8.0 grams 

Thymol 0.2 gram 

Eucalyptol ; . . . 2.0 c. cent. 

Oil of peppermint.. 0.2 c. 

Oil of wintergreen. . 0.4 c. 

Tincture of cudbear 15.0 c. 

Alcohol 60.0 c. 

Glycerine 250.0 c. 

Water, enough to 

ma ke 1,000.0 c. centimeters 

Dissolve the salts in 650 cubic centi- 
meters of water, and the thymol, eucaJyp- 
tol, and oils in the alcohol. Mis tJje 
alcoholic solution with the ^f^,^ 
add the aqueous liquid, then the tincture 
of cudbear, and lastly enough water t© 
make 1,000 cubic centimeters. Allow 
to stand a few days, then Alter add, ng a 
little magnesium carbonate to » the falter, 
if necessary, to get a brilliant filtrate. 

This is from the Formulary of the 
Bournemouth Pharmaceutical, Associa- 
tion, as reported in the Canadian Phar- 
maceutical Associations 



cent, 
cent, 
cent, 
cent, 
cent. 



0 



ANTISEPTICS 



Alkaline Glycerine of Thymol. — 
Sodium bicarbonate. . 100 grains 

Sodium biborate 200 grains 

Sodium benzoate 80 grams 

Sodium salicylate 40 grains 

Menthol 2 grains 

Pumilio pine oil 4 minims 

Wintergrecn oil 2 minims 

Thymol 4 grains 

Eucalyptol... 12 mini ms 

\ Compound Solution of Thymol.— 
A 

Benzoic acid 64 grains 

Borax 64 grains 

Boric acid 128 grains 

Distilled water 6 ounces 

Dissolve. 

B 

Thymol 20 grains 

Menthol 6 grains 

Eucalyptol 4 minims 

Oil of wintergreen. ... 4 minims 

Oil of peppermint 2 minims 

Oil of thyme. 1 minim 

Alcohol (90 per cent) . 8 ounces 
Dissolve. 

Mix solutions A and B, make up to 
20 fluidounces with distilled water, and 
filter. 

Oil of Cinnamon as an Antiseptic. — 
Oil of cinnamon in a 9-per-cent emulsion, 
when used upon Lhe hands, completely 
sterilizes them. A 7-to 8-per-cent emul- 
sion is equal to a 1 -pet-cent solution of 
corrosive sublimate and is certainly far 
more agreeable to use. Oil of thyme in 
an 11-per-cent solution is equal to a 7-per- 
cent solution of cinnamon oil. 

Green Coloring for Antiseptic Solu- 
tions. — The safest coloring substance for 
use in a preparation intended either for 
internal administration or for applica- 
tion to the skin is the coloring matter of 
leaves, chlorophyll. A tincture of spin- 
ach or of grass made by macerating 2 
ounces of the freshly cut leaves in a pint 
of alcohol for five days will be found to 
give good results. If the pure coloring 
substance is wanted the solvent should 
be evaporated off. 

Antiseptic Bromine Solution.— 

Bromine 1 ounce 

bodium chloride 8 ounces 

Wate f 8 pints 

Dissolve the sodium chloride in the 
water and add the bromine. This solu- 
tion is to be diluted, when applied to 
broken skin surfaces, 1 part with 15 
parts of water. 

Substitute for Rubber Gloves.— Mur- 



phy has found that a 4-, 6-, or 8-Df» 
solution of gutta-percha in benzine ^if 11 * 
applied to the hands of the surce.Tn a 
the skin of the patient, will seal ih ° T 
surfaces with an insoluble, impervi 6 
and practically imperceptible coatinT' 
a coating that will not allow the sec 
tions of the skin to escape, and will * 
admit secretions, blood, or p us into H? 
crevices of the skin. At the same tin 
it does not impair the sense of touch n 
the pliability of the skin. A similar sol If 
tion in acetone also meets most of the 
requirements. 

Murphy's routine method of hand prep- 
aration is as follows: First, five to seven 
minutes' scrubbing with spirits of green 
soap and running hot water; second 
three minutes' washing with alcohol' 
third, when the hands are thoroughly 
dried, the gutta-percha solution is poured 
over the hands and forearms, care being 
taken to fill in around and beneath the 
nails. The hands must be kept exposed 
to the air with the fingers separated until 
thoroughly dry. The coating is' very 
thin and can be recognized only by its 
glazed appearance. It will resist soap 
and water, but is easily removed by wash- 
ing in benzine. The hands can he 
washed in bichloride or any of the anti- 
septic solutions without interfering with 
the coating or affecting the skin. If 
the operations be many, or prolonged, 
the coating wears away from the tips 
of the fingers, but is easily renewed. For 
the remaining portion of the hands one 
application is sufficient for a whole morn- 
ing's work. 

The 4-per -cent solution of rubber wears 
better on the tips of the fingers, in han- 
dling instruments, sponges, and tissues 
than the acetone solution. 

For the abdomen the acetone solution 
has the advantage, and it dries in three 
to four seconds after its application, 
while the benzine solution takes from 
three to four and a half minutes to make 
a dry, firm coating. , . . 

The preparation of the patient s skin 
consists iu five minutes' scrubbing y ltn 
spirits of green soap, washing with ether, 
followed by alcohol. The surface is Jlicn 
swabbed over thoroughly with the ben- 
zine or acetone solution. j 

The gutta-percha solution is prepa r 
by dissolving the pure gutta-percha cui^ 
in sterile benzine or acetone. x , , g 
solutions do not stand boiling, « a * q{ 
impairs the adhesiveness and elasticity 
the coating. 

ANTISEPTICS FOR CAGED Bl&> S: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 



ANTISEPTICS 



10 



ANTS (TERMITES), TO PRE- 
VENT: 

Termites, or destructive white ants are 
, pj Ca ] insects which bore into the wood 
and eat the inside leaving only the outer 
s I ie IJ. At certain times of the year, the 
destructive little insects leave the wood 
on w hich they subsist and go into the 
ground. The times they do this can he 
Earned by watching them. When they 
so into the ground the householder whose 
house has been attacked by them should 
watch where they enter. Then all that is 
necessary is to pour over the ground 
within a radius of two or three feet a 
generous amount of paradichlorbenzene 
dissolved in kerosene. The proportion is 
iy s pounds paradichlorbemene (com- 
monly called PDB) to 1 gallon kerosene. 
The paradichlorbenzene is one of the best 
fumigants and kerosene alone kills the 
termites by contact, so that the combina- 
tion means positive death to them. 

ARSENICAL WEED KILLER: 

Arsenous anhydride. 28 ounces 
Sodium hydroxide . . 17% ounces 

Crude phenol 2% ounces 

Water to make 100 ounces 

Heat the arsenic with the caustic soda, 
that is the sodium hydroxide in 75 ounces 
of water until dissolved. Add the phenol 
and enough water to make the weight 
100 ounces. One gallon of this fluid should 
be diluted with 25 gallons of water for 
use. 100 gallons of this fluid diluted as 
shown above is enough for 50 square 
yards. 

ASPHALT IN PAINTING-: 

See Paint. 

ASPHALT VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 

ASSAYING : 
See Gold. 

ASTHMA CURES. — Asthma Paper 3— 
J --Impregnate bibulous paper with the 
knowing: Extract of stramonium, 10; 
potassium nitrate, 17; sugar, 20; warm 
water, 200 parts. Dry. 

II.—Blotting or gray filter paper, 120; 
Potassium nitrate, 60; powdered bella- 
donna leaves, 5; powdered stramonium 
leaves, 5 ; powdered digitalis leaves, 3; 
Powdered lobelia, 5; myrrh, 10; oli- 
anum, 10; pheUandrium fruits, 5 parts. 
stramonium Candle. — Powdered stra- 
monium leaves, 120; potassium nitrate, 
*. Peruvian balsam, 8; powdered sugar, 
*. Powdered tragaeanth, 4 parts. (Water, 
and d ^ iass; ro ^ * nto 8U ^table shapes 



belladonna leaved 15 If 5 P? wd . ere 
2; potassium n&e, V ° Wdwed ° piUm 

Aihma Fumigating Powders — T, 
Powdered stramonium leaves, 4 no 
dered aniseed, 2; potassium nitra?e° 

. II.— Powdered stramonium, 30- no" 
sium nitrate, 5; powdered tea, 15- no 
dered eucalyptus leaves, IS; powder 
Indian hemp, 15; powdered lobelia 1 
powdered aniseed, 2; distilled water 
parts. (All the herbal ingredients 
coarse powder; moisten with the water 
which the potassium nitrate has be 
previously dissolved, and dry.) 

. Schijf matin's Asthma Powder. — Pot- 
sium nitrate, 25; stramonium, 70; bell 
donna leaves, 5 parts. 

_ Neumeyer s Asthma Powder. — Pota 
sium nitrate, 6 parts; sugar, 4; stram 
nium, 6; powdered lobelia, 1. 

Fischer's Asthma Powder. — Stram. 
nium, 5 parts; potassium nitrate, 1; po 
dered Achillea millefolium leaves, 1. 

V orlaender' $ Asthma Powder. — Str 
monium, 150; lobelia, 80; arnica flowe 
80; potassium nitrate, 30; potassiu 
iodide, 3; naphthol, 1,100 parts. 

Asthma Cigarettes . — I . — B ella d on 
leaves, 5 parts; stramonium leaves, 

fmrts; digitalis leaves, 5 parts; sa 
eaves, 5 parts; potassium nitrate, 
parts; tincture of benzoin, 40 parts; bo 
ing water, 1,000 parts. Extract t 
leaves with the boiling water, filter, a 
in the filtrate dissolve the salts. I 
merse in the fluid sheets of bibulo 
paper (Swedish filter paper will a 
swer) and let remain for 24 hours, 
the end of this time remove, dry, cut in 
pieces about 2f by 4 inches, and roll m 
cigarettes. 

II. —Sodium arseniate, 3 grams; e 
tract of belladonna, 8 grains; extract 
stramonium, 8 grains. Dissolve the a 
seniate of sodium in a small quantity 
water, and rub it with the two extrac 
Then soak up the whole mixture wi 
fine blotting paper, which is dnedan 
cut into 24 equal parts. . Each part 
rolled up in a piece of cigarette pape 
Four or five inhalations are general! 
sufficient as a dose. 

ASTHMA IN CANARIES: 

Sec Veterinary Formulas. 

ASTRINGENT FOR HORSES: 
See Veterinary Formulas. 

ATOMIC WEIGHTS: 

See Weights and Measures. 



102 



BAKING POWDERS 



ATROPINE, ANTIDOTE TO. 

The usual physiological antidotes to 
e mydriatic alkaloids from belladonna, 
stramonium, and liyoscyamus are mor- 
phine or eserine. Strong tea, coflce, or 
brandy are usually administered as stim- 
ulants. Chief reliance has usually been 
placed upon a stomach siphon and 
plenty of water to wash out the contents 
of the stomach. The best antidote ever 
reported was that of muscarine extracted 
by alcohol from the mushroom, Amanita 
muscaria, but the difficulty of securing 
the same has caused it to be overlooked 
and almost forgotten. Experiments 
with this antidote showed it to be an al- 
most perfect opposite of atropine m its 
effects upon the animal body and that 
it neutralized poisonous doses. 

AROMATIC WATER. — 

Cinnamon bark, Chinese 3 parts 

Lavender flowers 5 parts 

Peppermint leaves .... 5 parts 

Rosemary leaves 5 parts 

Sage leaves 10 parts 

Fennel seeds 3 parts 

Alcohol 70 parts 

Water 300 parts 

Macerate the drugs in the mixed alco- 
hol and water for 24 hours and distill 
200 parts. 

AQUA REGIA. — Aqua regia consists 
in principle of 2 parts of hydrochloric acid 
and 1 part of nitric acid. But this quan- 
tity varies according to the shop where it 
is used for gilding or jewelry, and some- 
times the proportion is brought to 4 parts 
of hydrochloric acid to 1 of nitric acid. 

AUTOMOBILE WAX PASTE 
POLISH: 

10 pounds carnauba wax 

5 pounds ceresin wax 

6 pints naphtha 

3 gallons turpentine 
Melt together in a steam jacketed ket- 
tle and stir while cooling; pour into cans 
just before mixture clouds. 



Baking Powders 

, --Tartaric acid, 3 parts; sodium 
bicarbonate, 1 part; starch, 0.75 part. 

required 



Of this baking 1 powder the required 
amount for 500 parts of flour is about 

tear? cake Cake ' auU 15 parts for 

. r Tl ' C substances employed must be 
<Ky. each having been previously sifted 



by itself, so that no coarse piece* 
present; the starch is mixed with *v? 
sodium bicarbonate before the ac' l • 
added. When large Quantities are Sr? 
pared the mixing is done by machin 
smaller quantities are best mixed t 
gether in a spacious mortar, and 
passed repeatedly through a sieve T 
stead of starch, flour may be used hi 
starch is preferable, because it hite 
feres with the action of the acid on ilT 
alkali. e 

i il t1 fo T r T m > la , gr? 08 ?? by Cra ^p- 

ton, of the United States Department of 
Agriculture, as the result of an investi- 
gation of the leading baking powders of 
the market, is: 

Potassium bitarlrate.. . 2 parts 
Sodium bicarbonate. . , 1 part 
Cornstarch l p ar t 

The addition of the starch serves the 
double^ purpose of a " filler" to increase 
the weight of the powder and as a pre- 
servative. A mixture of the chemicals 
alone does not keep well. 

The stability of the preparation is in- 
creased by drying each ingredient sepa- 
rately by exposure to a gentle heat, mixing 
at once, and immediately placing in bot- 
tles or cans and excluding access of air 
and consequently of moisture. 

This is not a cheap powder; but it is 
the best that can be made, as to health- 
fulness. 

III. — Sodium acid phos- 

phate 20 parts 

Calcium acid phos- 
phate 20 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 25 parts 

Starch 35 parts 

Caution as to drying the ingredients 
and keeping them dry must be observed. 
Even the mixing should be done in a 
room free from excessive humidity. 

IV. — Alum Baking Powder.— 

Ammonium alum, 

anhydrous ...... 15 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 18 parts 
Cornstarch, q. s. to make 100 parts. 
Mix. The available carbon dioxide 
yielded is 7^ per cent or 8 per cent. 

BALANCE SPRING: 

See Watchmakers" Formulas. 

BALDNESS : 

See Hair Preparations. 

BALL BLUE: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

BALSAMS : 

See also Ointments. 



BALSAMS 



10S 



^ild-Cheny Balsam. - 

^Id-cherry bark. . 
licorice root 



1 ounce 

1 ounce 

Ipecac JS UnC if 

Bloodroot J drachm 

Sassafras.... 1 drachm 

Compound tincture 

0 f opium 1 fluidounce 

Fluid extract of 

cubeb * bui drachms 

lffoisten the ground drugs with the 
fl Jd extract and tincture and enough 
Struum consisting of 25 per cent 
Seohol, and after six or eight houi 



1 drachm 
30 minims 
q. s. 

1 drachm 



~jrs paclc 

via percolator, and pour on menstruum 
Srtil percolation begins. Then cork the 
Jifice cover the percolator, and allow to 
macerate for 24 hours. _ Then percolate 
to 10 fluidounces, pouring back the hrst 
portion of percolate until it comes through 
clear. In the percolate dissolve i ounce 
of ammonium chloride and £ pound of 
sugar by cold percolation, adding simple 
syrup to make 16 fluidounces. Finally 
add 1 fluidrachm of chloroform. 

Balsam Spray Solution,— 

Oil of Scotch pine ... 30 minims 
Oil of eucalyptus .... 
Oil of cinnamon .... 
Menthol crystals. . . . 
Flui d extract of balm- 
of-Gilead buds . . . 
Tincture of benzoin, 

enough to make . . 4 ounces 
This formula can, of course, be modi- 
fied to suit your requirements. The oils 
of eucalyptus and cinnamon can be omit- 
ted and such quantities of tincture of 
tolu and tincture of myrrh incorporated 
as may be desired. 

Birch. Balsam. — 

Parts by 
weight 

Alcohol 30,000 

Birch juice 3,000 

Glycerine 1,000 

Bergamot oil 90 

Vanillin 10 

Geranium oil 50 

Water 14,000 

B 1NG NA EXTRACT FOR PAINT - 

Amyl acetate % ounce 

Butyric ether 60 minums 

Alcohol io ounces 

Water, to make .... 16 ounces 
sb?' h J S snould be mixed and allowed to 

Prin - for three davs and thcn flltered ' 
'napally used for painting radiators. 



B f!!sh T :° NIC F °* SLABBT 

White vinegar i pint 

S^ emar y 2 Srachms 

p e ; 2 drachms 

C^P^ 2 drachms 

Lavender 2 drachmfi 

Let the herbs soak in the vinegar for 

% t^ S ' th ? s ^ ain trough cheese- 
cloth, bottle and add to the bath Thi 1 
tonic can be used three times a week ii 
a warm bath. 

Tingly hot baths should not be taker 
Cold sponges will work miracles. There 
may be a warm bath at night, but onlj 
a few degrees above tepid, otherwise 
your flesh will continue to hang upon 
you, instead of firmly padding you. The 
cold sponge or shower every morning ii 
one of the greatest of all tissue bracers 
BATH TABLETS, EFFERVESCENT. 

Tartaric acid 10 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate. . 9 parts 
Rice flour 6 parts 

A few spoonfuls of this, when stirred 
into a bathiubful of water, causes a co- 
pious liberation of carbon dioxide, which 
is refreshing. This mixture can be made 
into tablets by compression, moistening, 
if necessary, with alcohol. Water, of 
course, cannot be used in making them, 
as its presence causes the decomposition 
referred to. Perfume may be added to 
this powder, essential oils being a good 
form. Oil of lavender would be a su 
able addition, in the proportion of 
fluidrachm or more to the pound ol 
powder. A better but more expensive 
perfume may be obtained by mixing 1 
part of oil of rose geranium with 8 parte 
of oil of lavender. A perfume still more 
desirable may be had bj 'adding am g 
ture of the oils from which Cologne water 
S made. For an ordinary quality the 



following will suffice: 



4 fluidraehms 
4 fluidraehms 
1 fTuidouncc 
g fluidounces 
30 minims 



Oil of lavender. 
Oil of rosemary. 
Oil of bergamot. 
Oil of lemon 

be taken: 

Oil of neroli 

Oil of rosemary. . 
Oil of bergamot.. 

Oil of eedrat • 

Oil of orange peel 

the case of .la vender. use din; 



6 fluidraehms 
S fluidraehms 
3 fluidraehms 

7 fluidraehms 
7 fluidraehms 

of thes 



104 



BATTERY FILLERS 



vescent) made by ^S^^PJl^ ° f 
powdered soap and powdered borax. 

BATH-TUB ENAMEL: 

See Varnishes. 

BATH-TUB PAINTS: 
See Paint. 

BATTERY FILLERS AND SOLUTIONS. 

I —In the so-called dry batteries the 
exciting substance is a paste instead of 
a fluid; moisture is necessary to cause 
the reaction. These pastes are gener- 
ally secret preparations. One oi the 
earlier "dry" batteries is that of Gassner. 
The apparatus consists of a containing 
vessel of zinc, which forms the positive 
element; the negative one is a cylinder 
of carbon, and the apace between is 
filled with a paste, the recipe for which is: 

Oxide of zinc 1 part 

Sal ammoniac 1 part 

Plaster.. 3 parts 

Chloride of zinc 1 part 

Water 2 parts 

The usual form of chloride-of -silver 
battery consists of a sealed cell contain- 
ing a zinc electrode, the two being gen- 
erally separated by some form of porous 
septum. Around the platinum or silver 
electrode is cast a quantity of silver 
chloride. This is melted and general- 
ly poured into molds surrounding the 
metallic electrode. The exciting fluid 
is either a solution of ammonium chlo- 
ride, caustic potassa, or soda, or zinc 
sulphate. As ordinarily constructed, 
these cells contain a paste of the electro- 
lyte, and are sealed up hermetically in 
glass or hard-rubber receptacles. 

.II. — The following formula is said to 
yield a serviceable filling for dry batteries: 

Charcoal 3 ounces . 

Graphite 1 ounce 

Manganese dioxide.. . 3 ounces 

Calcium hydrate 1 ounce 

Arsenic acid 1 ounce 

Glucose mixed with 

dextrine or starch . . 1 ounce 
Intimately mix, and then work into a 
paste of proper consistency with a sat- 
urated solution of sodium and ammo- 
mum chlorides containing one-tenth of 
its volume of a mercury-bichloride solu- 
tion and an equal volume of hydrochloric 
acid Add the fluid gradually, and well 
work up the mass. 

III.— Calcium chloride, 

crystallized 30 parts 

Calcium chloride, 

granulated 30 parts 

Ammonium sulphate 15 parts 
4inc sulDhate 25 parts 



ost 



Solutions for Batteries The a l 

exclusively employed solution of sal 
moniac .(ammonium chloride) m- am ~ 
the drawback that the zinc rods «1 i te 
etc., after a short use, become' cW^i 
with a fine, yellow very difficultly I!? 
uble, basic zinc salt, whereby the 
eration of the electric current is ham? pj* 
and finally arrested altogether Tr 
evil may be remedied by an admixture 3 
cane sugar For a battery of ordinal 
size about 20 to 25 grams of sugar di=f 
solved in warm water, is sufficient n 
60 to 60 grams of sal ammoniac Aft 
prolonged use only large crystals foff 
zinc saccharate) form, which, however 
become attached only to the zinc rod in 
a few places, having very little disad- 
vantageous effect upon the action of the 
batteries and being easy to remove, owing 
to their ready solubility. * 

TEST PAPER FOR DETERMIN 
ING ELECTRIC POLARITY: 

Moisten filter paper with a 1 per cent 
solution of phenolphthalcin in alcohol and 
| allow to dry. Dip the paper in a 10 per 
1 cent solution of potassium chloride in 
I distilled water. For use wet the paper 
1 and apply to the two terminals. The 
negative side will turn pink. 

BAY RUM: 

I. — Oil of bay 1 drachm 

Alcohol 18 ounces 

Water IS ounces 

Mix and filter through magnesia. 

II.- Bay-leaf otto Vz ounce 

Magnesium carbonate. y% ounce 

Jamaica rum 2 pints 

Alcohol 3 pints 

Water 3 pints 

Triturate the otto with the magnesium 
carbonate, gradually adding the other 
ingredients, previously mixed, and filter. 
If the rum employed contains sufficient 
sugar or mucilaginous matter to cause 
any stickiness to be felt on the skin, rec- 
tification will be necessary. 

BEARING METAL: . , 

See Babbitt Metal, Bearing Metal, ana 
Phosphor Bronze, under Alloys. 

BEDBUG DESTROYERS: 

See Insecticides. 

BEEF. IRON, AND WINE. 

Extract of beef , . . - 512 grains 
Delannated sherry 

wine 26 ounces 

Alcohol 4 ounces 

Citrate of iron and . 

ammonia. . . 

256 gnuns 

Simple sirup 12 ounces 



r 



BELT PASTES 



105 



2 ounces 



Tincture of orange. 
Tincture of carda- 

mom co... 1 ounce 

ntricacid 10 grams 

Water, enough to make 4 pmts 
t f stand 24 hours, agitate frequently, 
n d filter- See that the orange is fresh. 



REEF PEPTOKOIDS : 

See Peptonoids. 
B EEF PRESERVATIVES: 
gee Foods. 

BEEF TEA: 

g ce Beverages. 

BEERS, ALCOHOL IN: 

See Alcohol. 
BEER, GINGER, HOP-BITTER, 
SCOTCH, AND SPRUCE: 

See Beverages. 
BEER, RESTORATION OF SPOILED. 

I —Powdered chalk is poured into the 
cask and allowed to remain in the beer 
until completely precipitated. > _ 

II. — The liquor of boiled raisms may 
be poured into the beer, with the result 
that the sour taste of the beer is disguised. 

III. — A small quantity of a solution of 
potash will remove the sour taste of 
beer. Too much potash must not be 
added; otherwise the stomach will suffer. 
Bcct thus restored will not keep long. 

IV. — If the beer is not completely 
spoiled it may be restored by the addi- 
tion of coarsely powdered charcoal. 

V. — If the addition of any of the above- 
mentioned substances should affect the 
taste of the beer, a, little powdered zingi- 
ber may be used to advantaged Syrup 
or molasses may also be employed. 

BEES, FOUL BROOD IN. 

"Foul brood" is a contagious disease 
to which bees are subject. It is caused 
by bacteria and its presence may be 
kaown by the bees becoming languid, 
^ark, stringy, and elastic masses are 
Jjrnid in the bottom of the cells, while 
caps are sunken or irregularly punc- 
ured. Frequently the disease is said to 
accompanied by a peculiar offensive 
Prompt removal of diseased col- 
o. u eir transfer to clean and thor- 
Hf- y 4 lsint «cted hives, and feeding on 
th e Se ^ tlCa ^^ treated honey or syrup are 
cur mft f na taken for the prevention and 
used til6 ' disease - The antiseptics 
forrn- are Sauc yhc acid, carbolic acid, or 
*£?Z aC l d ', S P ra y in £ the brood with 
a ndf A> tnese remedies in a solution 
c&to,^ . n £ with a honey or syrup medi- 
18 ,3 w . lth them will usually be all that 
squired by way of treatment. It is 



also said that access to salt • 
portant for the health of beel 1 



is im- 



BEETLE POWDER; 

See Insecticides.. 

BELL METAL: 

See Alloys. 

BELLADONNA, ANTIDOTES TO • 

See Antidotes and Atropine. 

BELT PASTES FOR INCREASING 
ADHESION. 

Tallow. ; 50 parts 

Castor oil, crude 20 parts 

Fish oil &o parts 

Colophony 10 parts 

Melt on a moderate fire and stir until 
the mass cools. 

II.— Melt 250 parts of gum elastic 
with 250 parts of oil of turpentine in an 
iron, _ well-closed crucible at 122° F. 
(caution!) and mix well with 200 parts of 
colophony. After further melting add 
200 part? of yellow wax and stir carefully. 
Melt in 750 parts of heated train oil, 
250 parts of tallow, and to this add, with 
constant stirring, the first mixture when 
the latter is still warm, and let cool slowly 
with stirring. This grease is intended 
for cotton belts. 

III. — Gutta-percha 40 parts 

Rosin 10 parts 

Asphalt 15 parts 

Petroleum 60 parts 

Heat in a glass vessel on the water 
bath for a few hours, until a uniform so- 
lution is obtained. Let cool and add 15 
parts of carbon disulphide and allow the 
mixture to stand, shaking it frequently. 

Directions for Use.— The leather belts 
to be cemented should first be roughened 
at the joints, and after the cement has 
been applied they should be subjected 
to a strong pressure between warm 
rollers, whereupon they will adhere to 
gether with much tenacity. 

Preservation of Belts.-In a weO<ovj 
ered iron vessel heat at a 3 
50° C. (152° F.) 1 pajt tyj*% ith j. 
caoutchouc, cut m ^^Spentine. 
part by weight of rec 1 lv * ed add 
When the caoutchouc is diss ^ ^ 
0.8 part of ^ophony, ju ^ Q , 
dissolved and add Y nt o another vessel 
part of yellow wax. Into an „ 

& suitable f«£ B Jdffithe»rt«« 
add 1 part of tallow, ana on 

until fie tallow is melted ^tM^ ^ 
ZS&^&^Z* to be rubbed 



106 



BENZINE 



od the inside of the belts from time to 
time, while they are in use. 'Ihe belts 
run easily and do not slip. The grease 
may also serve for improving old belts. 
For this purpose the grease should be 
rubbed on both sides in a warrn place. 
A first layer is allowed to soak in, and 
another applied. 

To Make a Belt Pull.— Hold a piece of 
tar soap on the inside of the belt while it 
is running. 

BELT CEMENT: 

See Adhesives. 

BELT GLUE : 

See Adhesives. 

BELT LUBRICANT: 

See Lubricants. 

BENEDICTINE : 

See Wines and Liquors. 

Benzine 

Benzine, to Color Green. — Probably 
the simplest and cheapest as well as the 
best method of coloring benzine green is 
to dissolve in it sufficient oil soluble aniline 
green of the desired tint to give the re- 
quired shade. 

Purification of Benzine. — Ill-smelling 
benzine, mixed with about 1 to 2 per rent 
of its weight of free fatty acid, will dis- 
solve therein. One-fourLh per cent of 
tannin is added and all is mixed well. 
Enough potash or soda lye, or even lime 
milk, is added until the fatty acids are 
saponified, and the tannic acid is neu- 
tralized, shaking repeatedly. After a 
while the milky liquid separates into two 
layers, viz., a salty, soapy, mud-sediment 
and clear, colorless, and almost odorless 
benzine above. This benzine, filtered, 
may be employed for many technical 
purposes, but gives an excellent, pure 
product upon a second distillation. 

Fatty acid from tallow, olive oil, or 
other fats may be used, but care should 
he taken that they have as slight an odor 
of rancid fat as possible. The so-called 
elaine or olein — more correctly oleic acid 
—of the candle factories may likewise 
be empjoyed, but it should first be agi- 
tated with a tV- percent soda solution to 
get rid of the baei-srnelling fatty acids, 
especially the butyric acid. 

The Prevention of the Inflammability 
of Benzine.— A mixture of 9 volumes 
tetrachloride and 1 volume of benzine is 
practicably inflammable. The fla me is 
soon extinguished by itself. 



Substitute for Benzine as a eio*„ • 
Agent.— cans "lg 

I. — Chloroform 7t R 

Ether ; JJPJ? 

Alcohol e io 

Decoction of quillaya 
Mix . Wk 2 *.500parti 

II. — Acetic ether, tech- 

nically pure i 0 parts 

Amyl acetate i 0 partg 

Ammonia water \o 

Alcohol dilute 7q parts 

Mix. 

III. — Acetone i patt 

Ammonia water i p ar ^ 

Alcohol dilute 1 part 

Mix. 

Deodorizing Benzine. — 

I. — Benzine 20 ounces 

Oil of lavender. . . 1 fluidrachm 

Potassium dichro- 

mate 1 ounce 

Sulphuric acid. . . 1 fluidounce 

Water 20 fluidouuees 

Dissolve the dichromate in the water, 
add the acid and, when the solution is 
cold, the benzine. Shake every hoi 
during the day, allow to stand all night 
decant the benzine, wash with a pint ot 
water and again decant, then add the oi 
of lavender, 

II. — First add to the benzine 1 to 2pe 
cent of oleic acid, which dissolves. The 
about a quarter of 1 per cent of tannin is 
incorporated by shaking. A sufficient 
quantity of caustic potassa solution, or 
milk of lime, to combine with the acids 
is then well shaken into the mixture, 
and the whole allowed to stand. The 
benzine rises to the top of the water? 
fluid, sufficiently deodorized and decol- 
orized for practical purposes. 

III. — To 1,750 parts of water add m 
parts of sulphuric acid, and when it W 
cooled down add 30 parts of P otassul L 
permanganate and let dissolve. A| 
this solution to 4,500 parts of benzine 
stir well together, and set aside tor- 
hours. Now decant the benzine ana J 
it add a solution of 7* parts of P otas ,^J 
permanganate and 15 parts ot soa • 
hydrate in 1,000 parts of water, ana u-^ 
tate the substances well together, 
stand until the benzine separates, 
draw off. . „ a „■ , 

IV. -Dissolve 3 parts of "t ^fjT 
18 parts of sodium hydrate in 40 p»« | 
water. Add this to 200-250 P a " c 
benzine and agitate well together i - ^ 
minutes, then let settle and dra * - t „ t jtig 
benzine. Rinse the latter by ag" 



BEVERAGES 



, plenty of clear water, let settle, 
it fj the benzine, and, if necessary, 
operation. 
wttNE CLEANING- WITH: 
BE n *^i e aning Preparations and Meth- 

e „j„ r Miscellaneous Methods. 
ods» un 



See 



BENZINE, NON-EXPLOSIVE: 

B n se ordinary benzine and 25 per cent 
* rarbon tetrachloride. This makes a 
Wonderful spot remover. 
BENZOPARAL: 

a neutral, bland, oily preparation of 
, useful for applying various 

JSE<» by the aid of an atomiser 
Sulizer, or vaporizer. Can be used 
Slain or in combination with other easily 
dissolved medieinals. 

Paraffine, liquid 16 ounces 

Gum benzoin 1 ounce 

Digest on a sand bath for a half hour 
and filter. 

Beverages 

GETGER ALE AND GINGER BEER: 
OLd-Fashioned Ginger Beer. — 

Lemons, large and 

sound 6 only 

Ginger, bruised . 3 ounces 

Sugar 6 cups 

Yeast, compressed ... \ cake 

Boiling water 4 gallons 

Water enough 

Slice the lemons into a large earthen- 
ware vessel, removing the seed. Add the 
ginger, sugar, and water. When the 
mixture has cooled to lukewarm ness, add 
the yeast, first diffused in a little water. 
Cover the vessel with a piece of cheese 
cloth, and let the beer stand 24 hours. 
At the end of that time strain and bottle 
it. Cork securely, hut not so tightly that 
the bottles would break before the corks 
would fly out, and keep in a cool place. 

Ginger Beer.— Honey gives the bever- 
age a peculiar softness and, from not 
Having fermented with yeast, is the less 
Solent in its action when opened. In- 
gredients; White sugar, \ pound; honey, 
r°<K n ^' bruised ginger, 5 ounces; juice 
w sufficient lemons to suit the taste; water, 
*| gallons. Boil the ginger in 3 quarts 
H the wa ter for half an hour, then add 
™ e gmger, lemon juice, and honey, with 

;? e remainder of the water; then strain 
plough a cloth . when cald> add the 

Huarter of the white of an egg and a tea- 
*k°i of es sence of lemon. Let the 
stand for four days before bot- 



tling 
dre< 



h This quantity ^ make a 



10? 



bun- 



Ginger Beer without Yeast.— 

Ginger, bruised ^ pounds 

Le g mon,- *° *° Unds 



Honey . 
Water. 



'*■••■•» 1 dozen 
........ 1 pound 

enough 

Boil the ginger in 3 gallons of water 
for half an hour; add the sugar, the 
lemons (bruised and sliced), the honey 
and 17 gallons of water. Strain an<L 



Package Pop. — 

Cream of tartar. ..... 3 ounces 

Ginger, bruised . 1 ounce 

Sugar. . 24 ounces 

Citric acid. . £ drachms 

Put up in a package, and direct that it 
be shaken in gallons of boiling water, 
strained when cooled, fermented with 1 
ounce of yeast, and bottled. 

Ginger- Ale Extract. — 

I. — Jamaica ginger, 

coarse powder. . 4 ounces 
Mace, powder.. . . £ ounce 
Canada snakeroot, 

coarse powder. . 60 grains 

Oil of lemon 1 fluidrachm 

Alcohol 12 fluidounces 

Water 4 fluidounces 

Magnesium car- 
bonate or puri- 
fied talcum l av. ounce 

Mix the first four ingredients, an< 
make 16 fluidounces of tincture wit 1 
the alcohol and water, by percolatioi 
Dissolve the oil of lemon in a small quar 
tity of alcohol, rub with magnesia or ta 
cum, add gradually with constant trit- 
uration the ^ c t ur % a A^ Lt a e d din ] h 
extract may be fortified by «g*ng 
avoirdupois ounces of powdered grams 
of paradise to the gmgei etc., of tM 
above before extraction with alcohol am 

water. 
IL-Capsicum, coarse 

6 Pints 

Water .... ■ - • — g g ui<Jo unces 
Essence of gmger. a fl - dounce£ 
Diluted alcohol. . . < g" id nces 
Vanilla extract... * ££™ 

Oil of lemon 2 ? Sounce 

BoU ( ^-oumw^ S ^rt^ 
hours, occasionally regj^ng ^ 
lost by evaporation ^ej 0 he 
the filtrate on a ho ^ » Ad th e remai* 
sistency of a thin > 
iig ingredients, and filter. 




Til — Jamaica ging er » ' 

1U - ground 1» <>« uces - 

Lemon peel, fresh, 

cut fine 2 ounces 

Capsicum, powder 1 ounce 
Calcined magne- 

sia 1 ounce 

Alcohol I of eac h. sufficient 
Water ) 

Extract the mixed ginger and capsi- 
cum by percolation so as to obtain 16 
fluSounces of water, set the mixture aside 
for 24 hours, shaking vigorously from 
time to time, then filter, and pass through 
the filter enough of a mixture of 3 vol- 
umes of alcohol and 1 of water to make 
the filtrate measure 32 fluidounces In 
the latter macerate the lemon peel tor 
7 days, and again filter, 

Ginger Beer.— 

Brown sugar 2 pounds 

Boiling water 2 gallons 

Cream of tartar. 1 ounce 

Bruised ginger root. . . 2 ounces 

Infuse the ginger in the boiling water, 
add the sugar and cream of tartar; when 
lukewarm strain; then add half pint good 
yeast. Let it stand all night, then bot- 
tle; one lemon and the white of an egg 
may be added to fine it. 

Lemon Beer. — 

Boiling water 1 gallon 

Lemon, sliced 1 

Ginger, bruised 1 ounce 

Yeast. 1 teacunful 

Sugar 1 pound 

Let it stand 12 to 20 hours, and it is 
ready to be bottled. 

Hop Beer. — . 

Water 5 quarts 

Ho P s 6 ounces 

Boil 3 hours, strain the liquor, add: 

Water 5 quarts 

Bruised ginger 4 ounces 

and boil a little longer, strain, and add 
* Pounds of sugar, and when milk- 

7r?l7i 1 Pi 7 t - 0f ycast ' Let H ^rment; 
in 24 hours It is ready for bottling. 

CEnanthic Ether as a Flavoring- for 

and delightful flavor are produced by the 
presence of cenanthic ether or brandy 



flavor in ginger ale. This ether tU 
off a rich, pungent, vinous orL; ° Ws 
gives a smoothness very agreeable * and 
liquor or beverage of which it f n ? 
a part. It is a favorite -with "k rrns 
sophisticators." Add a f ew ] an< ly 
the ether (previously dissolved l^ ps - ? l 
times its bulk of Cologne sSw 
ginger-ale syrup just before bottling 

Soluble Extract of Ginger Ala a 
the following three formulas the j Of 
intended for soda-fountain use th 
ond is a "cheap" extract for the bottlS 
who want a one r ounce-to-the-g a ll 0D Z 
tract, and the third is a bottlers' extra! 
to be used in the proportion of thi-3 
ounces to a gallon of syrup. This latter 
is a most satisfactory extract and has 
been sold with most creditable results 
both as to clearness of the finished ginger 
ale and delicacy of flavor. 

It will be noted that in these formulas 
oleoresin of ginger is used in addition to 
the powdered root. Those who do not 
mind the additional expense might use 
one-fourth of the same quantity of vola- 
tile oil of ginger instead. This should 
develop an excellent flavor, since the oil 
is approximately sixteen times as strong 
as the oleoresin, and has the additional 
advantage of being free from resinous 
extractive. 

The following are the formulas: 

I. — (To be used in the proportion of 
4 ounces of extract to 1 gallon of syrup.) 

Jamaica ginger, in 

fine powder S pounds 

Capsicum, in fine pow- 
der 6 ounces 

Alcohol, a sufficient quantity. 
Mix the powders intimately, moisten 
them with a sufficient quantity of alco- 
hol, and set aside for 4 hours. 1*« 
in a cylindrical percolator and percolate 
with alcohol until 10 pints of percolate 
have resulted. Place the percolate in a 
bottle of the capacity of 10 pints,, ana 
add to it 2 fluidrachms of oleoresin 01 
ginger; shake, add 2A pounds oi wjeij 
powdered pumice stone, and agitate tn 
oughly at intervals of one-half hour tor 
hours. Then add 14 pints of water 1 
Quantities of 1 pint at ea ch add it 
shaking briskly meanwhile, i"" ^ et 
of the operation is most important. . - 
the mixture aside for 24 hours, »jP*gJ 
it strongly every hour or so dunn^ 
period. Then take 

Oil of lemon 1* fluidounces 

Oil of rose (or ge- . . j ltnS 

ranium).... . .. 3 fl'»d ra S£! 

Oilofbergamot...- 2 fluidr^" 08 



BEVERAGES 



109 



nil of cinnamon ... 3 
ggne-ium carbon- g 
ate 



fluidrachms 
fluidounces 



Kub 'the oih Wiethe magnejuayn a 



irtar and add 9 ounces of the 
portion of the ginger mixture to 
ffi^i Inve been previously added 2 
* b of alcohol, and continue tritu- 



ou» ceS rinsSiff out the mortar with the 
mixture- Pass the ginger mixture 
! ~dd tl 1 " ! 



irout 



ration 

$Kh? double filter and - a 
*E fiHer the mixture of oils and magnesia; 
fcfl pass enough water through the 
finallj P" , th resu lting product 

fe r Je ^ pints! or 3 galloJL If the 
Ktor should desire an extract of more 
j£ pungency, he may obtain his de- 
■ t effect by increasing or decreasing 
K s quantity of powdered capsicum in 
the formula. . 

jT _(Tobc used in the proportion of i 
ounce to 1 gallon of syrup.) 
Ginger, in moderately 

fine powder 6 pounds 

Capsicum, in fine pow- 

2J f pounds 

Alcohoi, a sufficient quantity. 
Mix, moisten the powder with ^ pints 
of alcohol, and set aside in a suitable 
vessel for 4 hours. Then pack the pow- 
der firmly in a cylindrical percolator, 
and percolate until 6 pints of extract are 
obtained. Set this mixture aside and 
label Percolate No. 1, and continue the 
percolation with 1^ pints of alcohol 
mixed with 1\ pints of water. Set the 
resultant tincture aside, and label Per- 
colate No. 2. 

Take oleoresin ginger 5 fluid ounces 
and add to Percolate No. 1. Then take: 

Oil of lemon "H fluidounces 

Oil of cinnamon. . . 1 fluidounce 

Oil of geranium | fluid ounce 

Magnesium carbon- 
ate S ounces 

Triturate the oils with the magnesia, 
add gradually Percolate No. 2, and set 
aside. Then place Percolate No. 1 in a 
la *ge bottle, add 3£ pounds of finely pow- 
dered pumice stone, and shake at inter- 
na of half an hour for six hours. This 
being completed, add the mixture of oils, 
a nd later 10 pints of water, in quantities 
of \ a pint at a time, shaking vigorously 
a fter each solution. Let the mixture 
stand foT 24 hours, shaking it at inter 



Ginger, in moderately 
fine powder 

Capsicum, in moder- 
ately fine powder . . 

Alcohol, q. s. 



8 pounds 
2 pounds 

Mix, moisten with alcohol, and set 
aside as m the preceding formula; then 
percolate with alcohol until 10 pints of 
extract are obtained. To this add oleo- 
resin of ginger 3 drachms, and place in 
a large bottle. Add 2£ pounds of pow- 
dered pumice stone, and shake as di- 



r i«r &b nours, snaKing it uhw 
|W, and then pass it through a double 
Ji«r. Finally add enough water through 
«»e filter to make the product measure 
* 4 Pints, or 3 gallons. 

m._(T 0 be used in proportion of 8 
°un cea to ! gallou o£ syrup .) 



pow- 

jjujjxiuc s luiic, and shake i 
rected for formula No. 1. Then add 1 
pints of water, in quantities of 1 pint at « 
time, shaking vigorously after each addi 
tion. Set the mixture aside for 24 hours, 
shaking at intervals. Then take: 

Oil of lemon 1 J fluidounces 

Oil of geranium ... | fluidounce 
Oil of cinnamon ... 3 fluidrachms 
Magnesia carbonate 3 ounces 

Rub these in a mortar with the mag 
nesia, and add 9 ounces of the clear por 
tion of the ginger mixture mixed with 
ounces of alcohol, rubbing the mixtur 
until it becomes smooth. Prepare 
double filter, and filter the ginger m; 
ture, adding through the filter the m 
toe of oils and magnesia. Finally a 
enough water through the filter to ma 
the final product measure 24 pints, or 
gallons. | 

If these formulas are properly mam 
ulated the extracts should keep for 
reasonable length of time without a pr 
cipitate. If, however, a precipitate o 
cur after the extract has stood for 
week, it should be refiltered. 

LEMONADES: 

Lemonade Preparations f or the Sick. 

L-Strawberry temonade: Citri : acid. 
™rt<*- water, 100 parts; sugar, 450 par 

tincture, ad lib. c^;,,™ 
IP-Lemonade Powder: Sodium 

carbonate, 65; tartaric ^acid, 60, sug 

125; lemon od, 12 drops _ 

IIL-Lemonade ]^e. sup ^ 

200; tartaric acid, W, * 

100; lemon oil, 3, tincrui 

dropS- , A„ Tnzenees: Tarta 

acid, 10; sugar, 30 , ^ fl dr0 

dered starch, 0.0, » and su 

tincture of vanj-^ * . £ sQ that 
dent diluted spmt oi 
lozenges can b e - a ^ eticS _ Tne f 0ll c 

thirst of diabetics: 



110 



BEVERAGES 



Citric acid * P art 

Glycerine. 50 parts 

Cognac 50 parts 

Distilled water .. . 500 parts 

Hot Lemonade.— Take 2 large, fresh 
lemons, and wash them clean with cold 
Water. Roll them until soft; then divide 
each into halves, and use a lemon-squeez- 
er or reamer to express the juice into a 
small pitcher. Remove all the seeds 
from the juice, to which add 4 or more 
tablespooiifuls of white sugar, according 
to taste. A pint of boiling water is now 
added, and the mixture stirred until the 
sugar is dissolved. The beverage is very 
effective in producing perspiration, and 
should be drunk while hot. The same 
formula may be used for making cold 
lemonade, by substituting ice water for 
the hot water, and adding a piece of 
lemon peel. If desired, a weaker lemon- 
ade may be made by using more water. 

Lemonades, Lemon and Sour Drinks 
for Soda- Water Fountains. — Plain Lem- 
onade. — Juice of 1 lemon; pulverized 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls; filtered water, suffi- 
cient; shaved ice, sufficient. 

Mix and shake well. Garnish with 
fruit, and serve with both spoon and 
straws. 

* 

Huyler's Lemonade. — Juice of I lem- 
on; simple syrup, 2 ounces; soda water, 
sufficient. Dress with sliced pineapple, 
and serve with straws. In mixing, do 
not shake, but stir with a spoon. 

Pineapple Lemonade. — Juice of 1 
lemon; pineapple syrup, g ounces; soda 
water, sufficient. Dress with fruit, 
fcerve with straws. 

Seltzer Lemonade. —Juice of 1 lemon- 
pulverized sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls. Fill 
with seltzer. Dress with sliced lemon. 

Apollinaris Lemonade.— The same as 
seltzer, substituting apollinaris water for 
seltzer. 

Limeade.— Juice of 1 lime; pulverized 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls; water, sufficient 

Se boH tfv limCS afe not obt^able, 
use bottled lime juice. 

Orangeade.— Juice of 1 orange- rml- 
vemed sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls? water 
I S CI ^ t; J shaved ice > Efficient Dress 

glass ' SufficieQt ' Se rve in a small 

pufverf*cd e ,? 0na l e -~- Tuice of 1 lemcnj 
' pour mto a glass containing 



shaved ice until the glass l aek3 at 
inch of being full. p OUr in 
claret to fill the glass. Dre ss \ S u h ffi ^t 
Ties and sliced pineapple. c aeN 

Claret Punch.— Juice of 1 l einon 
verized sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls- i Pnl " 
wine, 2 ounces; shaved ice • 1 

Serve in small glass. Dress'^thS 
lemon, and fruit in season. BrishT a 
cherries and plums make attractive V 
nishings. - 

Raspberry Lemonade, 
lemon; 
I tablesi 



• !• Juice of 1 
l; 3 teaspoonfuls powdered 5 JJ. 
espoonful raspberry juice; shav^' 



ice; plain water; shake. 



II —Juice of 1 lemon; 2 teaspoonfuls 
powdered sugar; i ounce raspberry 
syrup; shaved ice; water; shake. 

Banjo Sour. — Pare a lemon, cut it in 
two, add a large tablespoonful of susar 
then thoroughly muddle it; add the 
white of an egg; an ounce of sloe gin; 3 
or 4 dashes of abricotine; shake well; 
strain into a goblet or fizz glass, and fill 
balance with soda; decorate with a slice 
of pineapple and cherry. 

Orgeat 
drachms; 
lemon. 



Punch. — Orgeat 
brandy, 1 ounce; 



syrup, 12 
juice of 1 



G-ranola. — Orange syrup, 1 ounce; 
grape syrup, 1 ounce; juice of £ lemon; 
shaved ice, q. s. Serve with straws. 
Dress with sliced lemon or pineapple. 

American Lemonade. — One ounce or- 
ange syrup; 1 ounce lemon syrup; i tea- 
spoonful powdered sugar; 1 dash acid- 
phosphate solution; J glass shaved ice. 
Fill with coarse stream. Add slice of 
orange, and run two straws through it. 

Old -Fashioned Lemonade. — Put in a 
freezer and freeze almost hard, then add 
the fruits, and freeze very hard. Serve 
in a silver sherbet cup. 

"Ping Pong" Frappe".— Grape juice, 
unfermented, 1 quart; port wine (Call* 
fornia), £ pint; lemon syrup, 12 ounces; 
pineapple syrup, 2 ounces; orange syrup, 
4 ounces; Benedictine cordial, 4 ounces; 
sugar, 1 pound. , , t 

Dissolve sugar in grape juice and I pu 
in wine; add the syrup and c° rC ! lu .'' 
serve from a punch bowl, with ladle, m 
12-ounce narrow lemonade glass a 
fill with solid stream; garnish witn 
of orange and pineapple, and serve 
straw. 

Orange Frappe\ — Glass half fu ] ! °f 
fine ice; tablespoonful powdered sufe^ 
h ounce orange syrup; 2 dashes 1 e 
syrup; dash prepared raspberry; t v 



LEVERAGES 



. , nhosp hate solution. Fill with soda 
8 d stir well ; strain into a mineral glass 



4 flui drachms 
1 fluidounce 



fl nd serve 
0ot Lemonades.— 
■ Lenion essence. . 
Solution of citric 

acid ■ ■ • 

Svrup, enough to 

make S3 uuidounces 

Unserving, draw U fluidounces of the 
JL into an 8-ounce mug, til with hot 
water, and serve with a spoon. 

tt —Lemon ] , , 

1 Alcohol 1 fluidounce 

Solution of citric 
ac id 2 nuidraehms 

g 1](rar 20 a v. ounces 

^ater • %® fluidounces 

White of 1 egg 

Grate the peel of the lemon, macerate 
with the alcohol for a day; express; also 
express the lemon, mix the two, add the 
sutrar and water, dissolve by agitation, 
ana add the solution of citric acid and 
the white of egg, the latter first beaten to 
a froth. Serve like the preceding. 

Egg Lemonade. — I. — Break 1 egg into 
a soda glass, add 1^ ounces lemon syrup, 
a drachm of lemon juice, and a little 
shaved ice; then draw carbonated water 
to fill the glass, stirring well. 

II.— Shaved ice -^tumblerful 

Powdered sugar 4 tables poonfuls 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Yolk of.. 1 egg 

Shake well, and add carbonated water 
to fill the glass. 

HOT SODA-WATER DRINKS : 

Chocolate. — L — This may be prepared 
m two ways, from the powdered cocoa or 
from a syrup. To prepare the cocoa for 
y se, dry mix with an equal quantity^ of 
pulverized sugar and use a heaping 
teaspoonful to a mug. To prepare a 
syrup, take 12 ounces of cocoa, 5 pints 
ot water, and 4 pounds of sugar. Re- 
duce the cocoa to a smooth paste with a 
WU Warm w ater. Put on the fire, 
"hen the water becomes hot add the 
Paste, and then allow to boil for 3 or 4 
dilutes; remove from fire and add the 
sugar; stir carefully while heating, to 
Prevent scorching; when cold add 3 
grachms of vanilla; * to | ounce will suf- 
ace for a cup of chocolate; top off with 
^nipped cream. 

H. Baker's fountain choc- 
olate . . , . 1 pound 

Syrup 1 gallon 

Extract vanilla enough 



Shave the chocolate into a gallon nor, 
celamed evaporating dish anISSh 
a gentle hea stirring with a thin-bladed 
spatula When melted remove f roS tfi 
fire and add 1 ounce of cold water mix- 
ing well. Add gradually 1 ga U on * of £L 
syrup and strain; flavor to suit. Use 
1 ounce to a mug. 

III. — Hot Egg Chocolate.— Break a 
fresh egg into a soda tumbler; add 11 
ounces chocolate syrup and 1 ounce 
cream; shake thoroughly, add hot soda 
slowly into the shaker, stirring mean 
while; strain carefully into mug; top o 
with whipped cream and serve. 

IV. — Hot Chocolate and Milk.— 
Chocolate syrup .... 1 ounce 
Hot milk 4 ounces 

Stir well, fill mug with hot soda an 
serve. 

V. — Hot Egg Chocolate. — One egg, 1 
ounces chocolate syrup, 1 teaspoonL 
sweet cream; shake, strain, add 1 cu 
hot soda, and 1 tablespoonful whippe 
cream. 

Coffee. — I. — Make an extract by ma 
erating 1 pound of the best Mocha an 
Java with 8 ounces of water for 20 mi 
utes, then add hot water enough to pe 
colate 1 pint. One or 2 drachms of th 
extract will make a delicious cup of co 
fee. Serve either with or without crea 
and let customer sweeten to taste. 

H.— Pack J pound of pulverized cof, 
fee in a percolator. Percolate with 2 
quarts of boiling water, letting it run 
through twice. Add to this « quarts of 
milk; keep hot in an urn and draw as a 
finished drink. Add a lump of sugar 
and top off with whipped cream. 

in.— Coffee gyriJ p may be made by 
adding boiling water from the apparatus 
to 1 pound of coffee, placed in a suitaWj 
filter or coffeepot, until 2 1 quarts of the 
infusion are obtained. A dd J° thl | rs t 
pounds of sugar. In d»pensing 
put sufficient cream ™&*™£J* a £ri 
coffee, then sweeten i [^^^ t 
mix with the stream from tne a™ s 

I V.-Mocha coffee (ground ^ 

Ja^ coffee' (ground 4ounceg 

GSted sugar::.. 6 pounds 
Hot water.. 

ft ,h , e ve P the° "u'^n the percolate by 
3SS& heat and stram. 

Hot Egg Ora*geade.-One egg; J"'« 



112 



water 



. 2 teaspoonfuls powdered 
.„Je, strain, add 1 cr~ 
Stir, serve with nutmeg 
Hot Err Bouillon. — One-half ounce 
liquid extfact beef; 1 egg; salt and pep- 
per; hot water to fill 8-ounce mug. Stir 
extract, egg, and seasoning together; add 
water, still stirring; strain and serve. 

Hot Celery Punch. — One - quarter 
ounce of clam juice ; J ounce beef extract; 
1 ounce of cream; 4 dashes of celery es- 
sence. Stir while adding hot water, and 
serve with spices. 

Chicken Bouillon,— Two ounces con- 
centrated chicken; \ ounce sweet cream 
and spiee. Stir while adding hot water. 

Ginger. — 

Fluid extract of ginger %\ ounces 

Sugar 40 ounces 

Water, to %\ pints 

Take 10 ounces of the sugar and mix 
with the fluid extract of ginger; heat on 
the water bath until the alcohol is evap- 
orated. Then mix with 20 ounces of 
water and shake till dissolved. Filter 
and add the balance of the water and the 
sugar. Dissolve by agitation. 

Cocoa Syrup. — 
I. — Cocoa, light, soluble, 4 ounces 
Granulated sugar. . . 2 pounds 
Boiling hot water. ... 1 quart 

Extract vanilla 1 ounce 

Dissolve the cocoa in the hot water, by 
stirring, then add the sugar and dissolve. 
Strain, and when cold add the vanilla 
extract. 

II.— Cocoa syrup 2 ounces 

Cream 1 ounce 

Turn on the hot water stream and stir 
while filling. Top off with whipped 
eream. 

Hot Soda Toddy.— 

Lemon juice 

Lemon syrup 

Aromatic bitters ... 
Hot water, enough to fill an 8-ounce 
mug. 

Sprinkle with nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Hot Orange Phosphate.— 

Orange syrup \ fluidounce 

Solution of acid 

phosphate 1 fluidrachm 

Hot water, enough to fill an 8-ounce 

mug. 

inJ\L S P? e P are £ more acceptably by mix- 
ing the juice of half an orange with acid 
phosphate, SUCa .r. and hot water? 



BEVERAGES 

Pepsin Phosphate.— One 



2 fluidrachms 
I fluidounce 
1 fluidrachm 



of liquid pepsin; 2 dashes of afSW 1 * 
phate; 1 ounce of lemon syrup; i CU o W 
water. y ao * 

Cream Beef Tea.— Use 1 tea=ir.r^ e . 
of liquid beef extract in a ml?oTt l 
water, season with salt and pepn er 
stir in a tablespoonful of rich ere 
Put a teaspoonful of whipped crearn 1, 
top and serve with flakes. 0a 

Cherry Phosphate.— Cherry-phosphate 
syrup, 1$ ounces; hot water to make 8 
ounces. 

Cherry-phosphate syrup is made as 
follows: Cherry juice, 3 pints; sugar 6 
pounds; water, 1 pint; acid phosphate 
4 ounces. Bring to a boil, and when 
cool add the acid phosphate. 

Celery Clam Punch. — Clam juice, 2 
drachms; beef extract, 1 drachm; cream 

1 ounce; essence of celery, 5 drops; hot 
water to make 8 ounces. 

Claret Punch. — Claret wine, 2 ounces; 
sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls; juice of J lemon; 
hot water to make 8 ounces. 

Ginger. — Extract of ginger, 2 drachms; 
sugar, 2 drachms; lemon juice, 2 dashes; 
hot water to make 8 ounces. 

Lemon Juice, Plain, — Fresh lemon 
juice, 2i drachms; lemon syrup, 1 ounce; 
hot water, q. s. to make 8 ounces. 

Lime Juice. — Lime juice, f drachm; 
lemon syrup, 1 ounce; hot water to make 
8 ounces. Mix. Ebeile remarks that 
lemon juice er lime juice enters into 
many combinations. In plain soda it 
may be combined with ginger and other 
flavors, as, for instance, chocolate and 
coffee. 

Lemonade. — Juice of 1 lemon; pow- 
dered sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls; hot water to 
make 8 ounces. A small piece of fresh 
lemon peel twisted over the cup lends an 
added flavor. 

Hot Malt.— Extract of malt, 1 ounce; 
cherry syrup, 1 ounce; hot water, suni- 
cient to make 8 ounces. Mix. 

Malted Milk.— Ilorlick's malted milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls; hot water, quantity 
sufficient to make 8 ounces; flavoring to 
suit. Mix. Essence of coffee, choco- 
late, etc., and many of the fruit syrup- 
go well with malted milk, 

Hot Malted Milk Coffee (or Chocolate). 
—Malted milk, 2 teaspoonfuls; cone 
(or chocolate) syrup, 1 ounce; hot waw'i 
quantity sufficient to make S ounces- 
Hot Beef Tea. — I. — Best beef extracM 
tablespoonful; sweet cream, 1 ounce, 



BEVERAGES 



1x3 



. „ 7 0 -mces; pepper, salt, etc., quan- 

Sfsuffioiant. Mix. 
Tf —Extract beef bouillon, 1 teaspoon- 
l extract aromatic soup herbs (see 

Condiments), 10 drops; hot soda, 1 cup- 

in —Extract of beef 1 teaspoonful 

11 Hot water. q. s. 

Pepper, salt, and celery salt. 

Mis. 

Hot Bouillon. — 

Beef extract 1 ounce 

Hot water, q. s. to 
make 8 ounces 

Pepper, salt, etc q. s. 

Mix. 

Clam Bouillon. — 

I —Clam juice 12 drachms 

Cream 2 ounces 

Hot water, a. s. to make 8 ounces 
Mix. 

II,— Extract clam bouillon % ounces 

Prepared milk % drachms 

Extract of aromatic 

soup herbs o drops 

Extract white pepper.. 5 drops 

Hot soda 1 cupful 

Mix. 

III. — Clam juice may be served with 
hot water, salt and pepper added. Add- 
ing butter makes this bouillon a broth. 

It may also be served with milk or 
cream, lemon juice, tomato catsup, etc. 
Hot oyster juice may be served in the 
same way. 

Hot Tea.— 

I. — Tea syrup sufficient 

Hot water, q. s. - to 

make 1 cupful 

IE — Loaf sugar 4 cubes 

Extract of Oolong 

tea, about 1 dessertsp'ful 

Prepared milk, about 1 dessertsp'ful 

Hot soda 1 cupful 

Whipped cream. . . 1 tablespoonful 
Mix the tea extract, sugar, and pre- 
pared milk, pour on water, and dissolve. 
io P off with whipped cream. 

Hot Egg Drinks.— I.— One-half to 1 
ounce hquid extract of beef, 1 egg, salt 
5, n Q pepper to season, hot water to fill an 
jounce mug. Stir the extract, egg, and 
_ea.som.ng together with a spoon, to get 
. e U mixed, add the water, stirring brisk- 
A Meanwhile; then strain, and serve. 

, r > s ^ke the egg and extract in a shaker, 
anil f Water > ancl m ix by pouring back 
.. c fort h several times, from shaker to 



II. — Hot Egg Chocolate.— One to U 

ounces chocolate ayrun ^ B ™ i * 
cream hot Jr • gg ' ^ ounce 

cream, not water sufficient to fill an 
S-ounce mug. an 

Mix the syrup, eg g, and 
gether in an egg-shaW, shake as X 
making cold drmks; add the hot water 
and mix all by pouring tack an 
forth several times, from shaker to mug 
Ur, prepare by beating the egg with 
spoon, add the syrup and cream, mix a' 
quickly with the spoon, and add ho 
water, stirring constantly, and strain. 

III. — Hot Egg Coffee.— One egg, 
dessertspoonful extract of coffee, 1 tea 
spoonful sweet cream, 1 ounce syru 
Shake well, strain, and add 1 cupful ho 
water and top with whipped cream. 

TV. — Hot Egg Lemonade.— One eg 
juice of 1 lemon, 8 teaspoonfuls powdere 
sugar. Beat the egg with lemon juice 
and sugar thoroughly. Mix while add- 
ing the water. Serve grated nutmeg and 
cinnamon. The amount of lemon juice 
ahd sugar may be varied to suit different 
tastes. 

V. — Hot Egg Milk. — Two teaspoon- 
fuls sugar, 1 ounce cream, 1 egg, hot 
milk to fill an 8-ounce mug. _ Prepare as 
in hot egg chocolate, top with whipped 
cream, and sprinkle with nutmeg. If 
there are no facilities for keeping hot 
milk, use about 2 ounces of cream, and 
fill mug with hot water. 

VI. — Hot Egg Hogg.— Plain syrup, 
f ounce; brandy, i ounce; Angostura 
bitters, 3 drops; I egg. Put in shaker 
and beat well. Strain in 10-ounce mug, 
and fill with hot milk; finish witn 
whipped cream and nutmeg. 

VII. — Hot Egg Phosphate. — Two 
ounces lemon syrup, 1 egg, i ounce solu- 
tion of acid phosphate. Mix in a glass, 
and shake together thoroughly; pour ^n- 
to another gfiss, heated P^^'^h 
slowly draw full of hot water; season witn 

nutmeg. 

VTTT —Hot Esse Phosphate.— Break 
frelh egg into shlter an! add i ounce 
Sfpfe syrup * ogej ^ 
1 dash phosphate. »ttaKe, " 

Mo^ 
namon, and serve with wafers. 

FANCY SODA DRINKS : 

Coffee ^^r*S 3 sV« 
ounce glass. Ut*v - ^ shaj£er 

r d sTnces of carbonated water, pou, 
?Xthe°gla SS sufficient to fill it to withm 



BEVERAGES 



. j rt f the top; pour from glass to 
\T J hack nee or twice, to mix 
ffiXh V; g^he drink a rich, creamy 
fpp^iSnS^ndmake it cream suffi- 
ciently to fill the glass. 

Iced Coffee.-Serve in a 10-ounce 
class Draw 1 ounce into glass, fill 
nearly full with ice-cold milk, and mix by 
stirring. 

Eesr Malted Milk Coffee.—Prepare 
same as malted milk coffee with the ex- 
ception of adding the egg before shaking, 
ami top off with a little nutmeg, if de- 
sired. This drink is sometimes called 
coffee light lunch. 

Coffee FrappS.— Serve in a 12-ounce 
glass. Coffee syrup, lj ounces; white 
of 1 egg; 1 to 14. ounces of pure, rich, 
sweet cream; a small portion of fine 
shaved ice; shake thoroughly to beat the 
•white of the egg light, and then remove 
the glass, leaving the contents in the 
shaker. Now fill the shaker two-thirds 
full, using the fine stream only. Draw 
as quickly as possible that the drink may 
be nice and light. Now pour into glass 
and back, and then strain into a clean 
glass. Serve at once, and without 
straws. This should be drunk at once, 
else it will settle, and lose its lightness 
and richness. 

Coffee Nogg. — 

,Coffee syrup bounces 

Brandy 4 drachms 

Cream % ounces 

One egg. 

Coffee Cocktail. — 

Coffee syrup 1 ounce 

One egg. 

Port wine 1 ounce 

Br andy % drachms 

Shake, strain into a small glass, and 
add soda. Mace on top. 

Chocolate and Milk.— 

Chocolate syrup 2 ounces 

Sweet milk, sufficient. 

. Fill a glass half full of shaved ice, put 
in the syrup, and add milk until the fllass 

5m "TV"! 1 '. Shake wel1 ' a "d serve 
without straining. Put whipped cream 
on top and serve with straws. 

Chocolate Frappe.— 

Frozen whipped cream, sufficient, 
snaved ice, suffici ent. 

cream, fall Wlth shaved i CC nearly to the 



top, and pour in chocolate syrun r^i 
syrups may be used, if desired. tteT 

Royal Frappe".— This drinV r . ■ 
3 parts black coffee and 1 p £t of T 13ts «f 
frozen m a cooler, and served wl,n ■ y * 
sernifrozen state. e 'n a 

_ Mintjulep — One-half tumbler shn , 
ice, teaspoonful powdered suear 5 ? 
lemon juice, 2 or 3 sprigs of fresh S 
sh the mint against side of the 
nttlw»flm7nT. nnt, i , L£ie glass 



vi± j uii.5, * ur a sprij 

Crush the mint against sta 
to get the flavor. Then add claret sC? 
4 ounce; raspberry syrup, U ounees aDr i 
draw carbonated wn.tpr r,^,..u. . „4 



carbonated water nearlv to fill 
Insert bunch of mint and fill 
eavme full of shaver! W. a o_ 



glass, xu^rz ouncn oi mint and 1 
»lass, leaving full of shaved ice Serve 
straws, and decorate with fr,,i + „ J 



J -tt.' t B Ta «navea ice. Serve 
with straws, and decorate with fruits of 
the season. 

Grape Glace.— Beat thoroughly the 
whites of 4 eggs and stir in 1 pound of 
powdered sugar, then add 1 pint grape 
juice, 1 pint water, and 1 pound more of 
powdered sugar. Stir well until sugar 
is dissolved, and serve from a pitcher or 
glass dish, with ladle. 

"Golf Goblet." — Serve in a 12-ounce 
glass; fill two-thirds full of cracked ice, 
add 4 ounce pineapple juice, 1 teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful raspberry 
vinegar. Put spoon in glass, and fill to 
within one-half inch of top with carbon- 
ated water; add shaved ice, heaping full. 
Put strawberry or cherry on top, and 
stick slice of orange down side of glass. 
Serve with spoon and straws. 

Goldenade. — Shaved ice, 4 tumbler- 
ful; powdered sugar; juice of 1 lemon; 
yolk of 1 egg. Shake well, add soda 
water from large stream, turn from tum- 
bler to shaker, and vice versa, several 
times, and strain through julep strainer 
into a 12-ounce tumbler. 

Lunar Blend.— Take two vdami 
glasses, break an egg, putting the yolK 
in one glass, the white into the other; 
into the glass with the yolk add 1 ounce 
cherry syrup and some cracked ice, 
shake, add small quantity soda, ana 
strain into a 12-ounce glass. Into tn 
other mixing glass add 1 ounce piau 
sweet cream, and beat with bar spooi 
until well whipped; add 4 ounce le mo" 
syrup, then transfer it into the sua* , 
and add soda from fine stream ongj 
and float on top of the one conto«?JJ 
the yolk and sherry. Serve with m 
straws. 



Egg Chocolate.— 
Chocolate syrup. 

Cream 

White of one egg. 



g ounces 
4 ounces 



BEVERAGES 



115 



2 ounces 

3 ounces 



E MinUyrup 

Cream ■ ■ 

White f one egg, ^ 

^rrfTyrup f drachms 

r neapple syrup 4 drachma 

Raspberry syrup 4 drachma 

One egg- 
Cream- 

Egg Claret. — 

Claret syrup 

Cream. - 

One egg. 

Royal Mist.— 

Orange syrup J ounce 

Catawba syrup 1 ounce 

Cream... 2 ounces 

One egg. 

Banana Cream. — 

Banana syrup 12 drachms 

Cream * ounces 

One egg. 

Egg Coffee.— 

Coffee syrup 2 ounces 

Cream 3 ounces 

One egg. 
Shaved ice. 

Cocoa Mint- 
Chocolate syrup 1 ounce 

Peppermint syrup. ... 1 ounce 

White of one egg. 

Cream 2 ounces 

The peppermint syrup is made as fol- 
lows: 

Oil of peppermint. . . 30 minims 

Syrup simplex 1 gallon 

Soda foam 1 ounce 

Egg Lemonade. — 
Juice of one lemon. 

Pulverized sugar 3 teasp'f uls 

One egg. 
Water, q. s. 
Shake well, using plenty of ice, and 
*erve in a small glass. 

Nadjy.— 

Raspberry juice 1 ounce 

Pineapple syrup 1 ounce 

One egg. 

Cream 2 ounces 

Siberian Flip. — 

Orange syrup 1 ounce 

Pineapple syrup 1 ounce 

One egg. 

Cream % ounces 



Egg Orgeat 

Orgeat syrup la drachma 

£ ream 3 ounces 

Une egg. 

Normona. — 

Peach syrup i ounce 

^ rape syrup i ounce 

Cream 3 ounces 

Brandy % drachma 

One egg. 

Silver Fizz. — 

Catawba syrup 2 ounces 

Holland^ gin 2 drachma 

Lemon juice 8 dashes 

White of one egg. 

Golden Fizz. — 

Claiet syrup 2 ounces 

Holland gin Jounce 

Lemon juice S dashes 

Yolk of one egg. 

Rose Cream. — 

Rose syrup 12 drachms 

. Cream 4 ounces 

W r hite of one egg. 

Violet Cream. — 

Violet syrup 12 drachms 

Cream * ounces 

White of one egg. 

Rose Mint. — 

Rose syrup 6 drachms 

Mint syrup 6 drachms 

Cream 3 ounces . 

White of one egg. 



2 ounces 

3 ounces 



@ ounces 
3 ounces 



Currant Cream. — 

Red-currant syrup . 

Cream . ■ . • • 

One egg. 

Quince Flip. — 

Quince syrup 

Cream ■ • - ■ 

One egg. 
Shaved ice. 

Coffee Nogg.- ounces 

Coffee syrup ■ 4 draP hm* 

Brandy g ounces 

Cream 

One egg. 

Egg Sour.— 

Juice of one lemon. draP hms 
Simple syrup- 
One egg. dft M „ 

Shake, strain, and fill witn 
on top- 



116 



BEVERAGES 



Lemon Sour. — 

Lemon syrup 12 drachms 

Juice of one lemon. 
One egg. 
Raspberry Sour. — 

Raspberry syrup. ... IS drachms 
One egg. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Yam a. — 

One egg. 

Cream 3 ounces 

Sugar % teaspoonfuls 

Jamaica rum $ ounce 

Shake well, put into cup, and add hot 
water. Serve with whipped cream, and 
sprinkle mace on top. 
Prairie Oyster. — 

Cider vinegar bounces 

One egg. 

Put vinegar into glass, and break into 
it the egg. Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve without mixing. 

Fruit Frapp e*. — 

Granulated gelatin. . . 1 ounce 
Juice of six lemons. 
Beaten whites of two eggs. 

Water 5 quarts 

Syrup. 1 quart 

Maraschino cherries. . Bounces 

Sliced peach 4 ounces 

Sliced pineapple. .... 4 ounces 
Whole strawberries. . . 4 ounces 

Sliced orange 4 ounces 

Dissolve the gelatin in 1 quart boiling 
hot water; add the syrup and the balance 
of the water; add the whites of the eggs 
and lemon juice. 

KOUMISS. 

The original koumiss is the Russian, 
made from mare's milk, while that pro- 
duced in th ls country and other parts of 
Europe is usually, probably always, made 
from cow s milk. For this reason there 
is a difference m the preparation which 
may or may not be of consequence It 
has been asserted that the ferment used 
in Russia diilers from ordinary yeast but 
this has not been established 

uted hv ^TT °n Sub ^ ect > con *"b- 
ceuL7 R H ", Da y e ^ t0 the Pharma- 
ceutical Journal and Transactions, it i s 

milt ?f? fatty matter than cow's 
milk and he states that it is "therefore 
far more eas y of digestion." H e thinks 
hat cow's milk yields a better pr p , 

SfflSSM op- 
poses the folfowinVformula: ^ ^ 



Fresh milk..., 1Q 

Water ". , ' ' ' V \ 01 "lces 

Brown sugar. . . "iJ 0Un -ees 
■ iOU grains 



2 ^ grains 



Compressed yeast. 
Milk sugar 

Dissolve the milk sugar in th ^ 
add to the milk, rub the yeast an 1 k ater ' 
sugar down in a mortar with a 
the mixture, then strain into +V,i f L o£ 
portion. ie °ther 

Strong bottles are very essential eha.™ 
pagne bottles being frequently used n j" 
the corks should fit tightly i£ fa Cr '* n . d 
almost necessary to use a 'bottling !!f 
Chine for the purpose, and once the <X 
is properly fixed it should be wired down 
Many failures have resulted because \h 
corks did not fit properly, the result beinS 
that the carbon dioxide escaped as 
formed and left a worthless preparation 
It is further necessary to keep the prepa- 
ration at a moderate temperature, andto 
be sure that the article is properly fin- 
ished the operator should gently shake 
the bottles each day for about 10 min- 
utes to prevent the clotting of the casein. 
It is well to take the precaution of rolling 
a cloth around the bottle during the 
shaking process, as the amount of gas 

generated is great, and should the bottle 
e weak it might explode. 
Kogelinan says that if 1 volume of 
buttermilk be mixed with 1 or % vol- 
umes of sweet milk, in a short time 
lively fermentation sets in, and in about 
3 days the w.ork is completed. This, ac- 
cording to the author, produces a wine- 
scented fluid, rich in alcohol, carbon 
dioxide, lactic acid, and casein, which, 
according to all investigations yet made, 
is identical with koumiss. The follow- 
ing practical hints are given for the pro- 
duction of a good article: The sweet milk 
used should not be entirely freed from 
cream; the bottles should be of strong 
glass; the fermenting milk must be in- 
dustriously shaken by the operator at 
least 3 times a day, and then the corK 
put in firmly, so that the fluid will become 
well charged with carbon-di oxide gas, 
the bottles must be daily opened and ax 
least twice each day brought nearl j to 
horizontal position, in order to allow 
carbon dioxide to escape and air to enc , 
otherwise fermentation rapidly c«u ■ 
If a drink is desired strong m C * X ?°Z. 
acid, the bottles, toward the end oi J 
mentation, should be placed witi 
necks down. In order to i p ; TTne \ i 
fresh quantity of milk, simply a cio^ 
of its volume of either « ot, .[5 - yfc. 
menting or freshly fermented ^''o to 00° 
temperature should be from ov 
F., about 60° being the most fovoraiw - 



BEVERAGES 



hot 



re some miscellaneous formulas: 
Ser FiIl a quart champagne bottle up 
Hhe neck with pure milk; add 2 ta- 
t0 ifnls of white sugar, alter dis- 
yespooni . n a little water oyer a 

solving :j j s0 a quarter of a 2-cent 

h t oi compressed yeast Then tie the 
c t "n the bottle securely, and shake 
c ° rli ■ t, rp well; place it in a room of 

Ij^^^j^.^ for6 

fen- and finally in thence box over 
Eg Handle wrapped m a towd as 
Pi otmn if the bottle should burst. 
Kre that the milk is pure, that the 
? e Je is sound, that the yeast is fresh, to 
ES the mixture in the morning with 
° P 7t ™tc on account of its effervescent 
Snnertiel and be sure not to drink it at 
K tlU; is any curdle or thickening 
mrt resembling cheese, as this indicates 
that the fermentation has been prolonged 
bevond the proper time, 
ll —Dilute the milk with J part ot 
>t water, and while still tepid add £ 
of very sour (but otherwise good) but- 
termilk. Put it into a wide jug, cover 
with a clean cloth, and let stand jn a 
warmish place (about 75° F.) for 24 
hours; stir up well, and leave for an- 
other U hours. Then beat thoroughly 
together, and pour from jug to jug till 
perfectly smooth and creamy. It is 
now "still" koumiss, and may be drunk 
at once. To make it sparkling, which 
is generally preferred, put it into cham- 
pagne or soda-water bottles; do not 
quite fill them, secure the corks well, 
and lay them in a cool cellar. It will 
then keep for 6 or 8 weeks, though 
it becomes increasingly acid. To ma- 
ture some for driuking quickly, it is as 
Well to keep a bottle or two to start with 
In some warmer place, and from time to 
time shake -vigorously. With this treat- 
ment it should, in about 3 days, be- 
come sufficiently effervescent to spurt 
freely through a champagne tap, which 
must he used for drawing it off as re- 
quired. Later on, when very frothy and 
^cid it is more pleasant to drink if a 
uttle sweetened water (or milk and wa- 
J?) « first put into the glass. Shake 
the bottle, and hold it inverted well into 
™ e tumbler before turning the tap. 
Waving made one lot of koumiss as above 
you can use some of that instead of 
pttermilk as a ferment for a second 
ot, and. so on 5 or 6 times in succession; 
atter which it will be found advisable to 

thf v. again as at first - Ma re's milk is 
£ e best for koumiss; then ass's milk, 
hv j , muk ma >' be made more like them 
2 .adding a little sugar of milk (or even 
•oat sug ar ) with the hot water before fer- 



menting. But perhaps the chief draw, 
back to cow's m k f a ^ uraw 



cow s milk ls that the cream 
separates permanently, whereas that 3 
mare s rzuik will remix. Hence use par- 
tially skimmed milk; for if there is much 
cream it only forms little lumps of butter 
which are apt to clog the tap, or are left 
behind m the bottle. 

Kwass.— Kwass is a popular drink 
among the Russian population of Kun- 
zews, prepared as follows: In a big kettle 
put from 13 to 15 quarts of water, and 
bring to a boil, and when in active ebul- 
lition pour in 500 grams of malt. Let 
boil for 20 minutes, remove from 
fire, let cool down, and strain off. The 
liquid is now put into a clean keg oi 
barrel, 30 grams (about an ounce) of best 
compressed yeast added along with about 
600 grams (20 ounces) of sugar, and the 
cask is put in a warm place to ferment 
As soon as bubbles of carbonic gas are de 
tected on the surface of the liquid, it is 
signal that the latter is ready for bottling 
In each of the bottles, which should b 
strong and clean, put one big raisin, fil 
cork, and wire down. _ The bottU 
should be placed on the side, and in tl 
coolest place available—best, on ic 
The liquor is ready for drinking in froi 
2 to 3 days, and is said to be most ps 
atable. 

" Braga." — Braga is a liquid of mill 
turbidity, resembling cafe au laxt 
color, and forming a considerable pre 
cipitate if left alone. When shaken ] 
sparkles and a little gas escapes it 
taste is more or less acid, possessing 
pleasant flavor. „;n»+ 

About 35 parts of crushed millet, 
which a little wheat flour is added . 
placed in a large kettle. On this abo 
400 parts of water are povred. f AJ 
mixture is stirred well and boiled for 
hours. . After settling for 1 ^nvtheio 
water is renewed and the ^om 
tinned for another 10 hours, a 

maS s remains m ^^^ge tables 
is spread upon larg 



stance is ™ ,i 

cool. After it « P er ^ odeI1 tro 
stirred with water m a j ooa TJ _ 
and left to ferment «;, illle ^ ateI 
pulp is ^fted mixed^ with* 

and after an k°V r *KJ w eetish 
sale. Thetaateisahtae^ h 

but becomes »°*fjfw ns only » * 
time. Fermentation t>egm j 

trough. 

WINTER BEVERAGES ^ 
Campchello T Thoroug. t V 

yolks of 1» ive rJiLd sugar, the | 
Lely powdered 



f 3 lemons and 2 oranges, and 3 bottles 
f Grives or other white wine, over the 
e G S rising. Remove and slowly 
eat 1 bottle of Jamaica rum witn it. 
Eire Wine.— Vigorously beat 4 whole 
gs Snd the yolks of 4 with * pound of 
ne sugar; next add 2 quarts of white 
ine afd beat over a moderate fire until 
'sing. 

Bavaroise an Cognac. -Beat up the 
volks of 8 eggs in 1 quart of good mi k 
Jver the fir," until boiling, then quickly 
add 5 ounces of sugar and J quart of 
fine cognac. 

Bavaroise an Cafe. -Heat 1 pint of 
strong 'coffee and 1 pint of milk, 5 ounces 
of sugar, and the yolks of 8 eggs, until 
boiling, then add quart of Jamaica 
rum. 

Carbonated Pineapple Champagne. - 

Plain syrup, 42° 10 gallons 

Essence of pineapple 8 drachms 
Tincture of lemon. . . 5 ounces 
Carbonate of magne- 
sia 1 ounce 

Liquid saffron 2 J ounces 

Citric-acid solution. . 30 ounces 

Caramel 2£ ounces 

Filter before adding the citric-acid so- 
lution and limejuice. Use 2 ounces to 
each bottle. 

A German Drink. — To 100 parts of 
water add from 10 to 15 parts of sugar, 
dissolve and add to the syrup thus formed 
an aqueous extract of 0.8 parts of green 
or black tea. Add fresh beer or brew- 
ers' yeast, put in a warm place and let 
ferment. When fermentation has pro- 
gressed to a certain point the liquid is 
cleared, and then bottled, corked, and 
the corks tied down. The drink is said 
to be very pleasant. 

Limejuice Cordial. — Limejuice cor- 
dial that will keep good for any length of 
time may be made as follows: Sugar 
t> pounds; water, 4 pints; citric acid, 4 
ounces; boric acid, } ounce. Dissolve 
by the aid of a gentle heat, and when cold 
add refi ned limejuice, 60 ounces; tinc- 
ture of lemon peel, 4 ounces; water to 
make up to 2 gallons, and color with car- 
Summer Drink. — 

cta eC ! ICe 2 tablespoonfuls 

Winnl a eSyrUp - 2 tablespoonfuls 

W pped cream ... 3 tablespoonfuls 

r' r h cup 

Carbonated water. J cup 



desirable addition. A. plainer A ■ ^ 
made by combining the syrup ? nUk 
milk, and the ice, and shaking wlu Up of 

American Champagne. Q 0 i . 

(era b-ap pie cider is the best) 7 C]der 
Ions; best fourth-proof brandy ] gal " 
genuine champagne wine, 5 pints -^n ' 
1 gallon; bitartrate of potassa 2 ' *> 
Mix, let stand a short time; bottleJvf! 
fermenting. An excellent imitation 

British Champagne. - Loaf sugai 
56 pounds; brown sugar ( pa [ el w , r > 
pounds; water (warm), 45 gallons- wV* 
tartar, 4 ounces; mix, and at a pr " e 
temperature add yeast, 1 quart- a 
afterwards sweet cider, 5 gallons; bruised 
wild cherries, 14 or 15 ounces; p a ]I 
spirits, 1 gallon; orris powder, \ ounce 
Bottle while fermenting. 

Champagne Cider.— Good pale cider 
1 hogshead; spirits, 3 gallons; sugar] 
20 pounds; mix, and let it stand one 
fortnight; then fine with skimmed milk, 
| gallon; this will be very pale, and 
a similar article, when properly bottled 
and labeled, opens so briskly that even 
good judges have mistaken it for genuine 
champagne. 

BEER: 

Scotch Beer. — Add 1 peek malt to 4 
gallons of boiling water and let it mash 
for 8 hours, and then strain, and in the 
strained liquor boil: 

Hops 4 ounces 

Coriander seeds 1 ounce 

Honey. 1 pound 

Orange peel. 2 ounces 

Bruised ginger 1 ounce 

Boil for half an hour, then strain an 
ferment in the usual way. 

Hop Bitter Beer.— 

Coriander seeds bounces 

Orange peel 4 ounces 

Ginger.! 1 « UQCe 

Gentian root * ° LIllce 

Boil in 5 gallons of water for hjg-J 
hour, then strain and put into the nqi 
4 ounces hops and 3 pounds ot sugj 
and simmer for 15 minutes, tneu 
sufficient yeast, and bottle when r»aj 

Sarsaparilla Beer. -I--Comp°J»£* 
tract of sarsaparilla, 1 \ ounces; n ui of 
1 pint; dissolve, and when cold, a 
good pale or East India ale, i P" u j,d; 

II — Sarsaparilla (sliced), J Lyud; 
guaiacum bark (bruised smal /- J r er0 ot 
guaiacum wood (rasped) and lie jsee d 
(sliced), of each, 2 0,mceS : n n ro»'* 
(bruised), 1J ounces; mezereo 



BEVERAGES 



i ounce; cloves (cut small) J 
*rk a m oist sugar, 3* pounds; hot 
o« DCC Vnot boiling), 9 quarts; mix in a 
^ater . r> alirl keep it in a moder- 
ies° S ;,rffl room (shaking it twice or 
ately ^ :iy) until active fermentation 
tbv c . G ff i let it repose for about a week, 

This is 



^? fit will he. ready for use 
* f t be superior to the other prcpara- 
sald J sarsaparilla as an alterative 
Jfipr of the blood, particularly in 
KecUons. That usually made has 
old |]v only $ of tlic above ^an- 
iP * arcrftr for which molasses is often 
rilS but in either ease it will net 
wn\velk whereas, with proper caution, 
Eroducts of the above formulas may 
t^r- I or even 2 years. No 



be kept ior 



tumtlerf ul 3 or 4 times a day, or oftener. 

Spruce Beer.— I— Sugar, 1 pound; 
essence of spruce, \ ounce; boiling water 
Hon; mis well, and when nearly cold 
add of 'yeast k wineglassf ul ; and the 
next day bottle like ginger beer. _ 

II.— Essence of spruce, £ pint; pi- 
mento and ginger (bruised), of each, 5 
ounces; hops, I pound; water, 3 gallons; 
boil the whole "for 10 minutes, then add 
of moist sugar, 12 pounds (or good mo- 
lasses, 14 pounds); warm water, 11 gal- 
lons; mix well, and, when only luke- 
warm, further add of yeast, 1 pint; after 
the liquid has fermented for about 24 
hours, bottle it. 

This is diuretic and antiscorbutic. It is 
regarded as an agreeable summer drink, 
and often found useful during long sea 
voyages. When made with lump sugar 
it is called White Spruce Beer; when with 
moist sugar or treacle, Brown Spruce 
ceer. An inferior sort is made by using 
Less sugar or more water. 

Treacle'Beer. 



must 



be used. Dose: A small 



■ — l. — jc rum ircauit: ur mi 

asses, I to 2 pounds per gallon (accorc 
m to the desired strength); hops, } to 



I . — Trom treacle or mo- 
d- 

••'■r * ^0 | 

^nce; yeast, a tablespooriful; water, 
| s.; treated as below. 
0 ■"' Bops, 1^ pounds; corianders, 1 
^ c e; capsicum pods (cut small), 4 
jjnoe; water, 8 gallons; boil for 10 or 
t hrou Q1 v! UteS ' an ^ strain the liquor 
taim c °arse sieve into a barrel con- 
backfl, tr v acle ' SS Pounds; then throw 
rebnii °P S > etc -' into the copper and 
' them, for 10 minutes, with 



2 4 hours 
warm place, after w 



Se eo n <l o n JU min utes, Wlttl a 

atrainiL . gallous of water, which must be 
V? ln S? l , he barrel - as before; next 
Btick n^ij 6 , the whole well with a stout 
ficient \ 0f , Cold wa *er 21 gallons (suf- 
eall Q n 3 >° make the whole measure 37 
5 Pint it* ' a S a ' n after mixing, stir in 
°* good fresh yeast; lastly, let it 



remain for 

lact 

into the eellar, and inli 
or tapped on d 
be fit to drink. 



a m a moderately 
bich it mav ho n „\ 




may be put 

or tapped on draught ~ In \ days 1 b ? lt ^d 
be fit to drink. For a Jjo^k * 
pounds, or even half t 
molasses may be used. It will^hen 
keep good for a twelvemonth. This iV* 
wholesome drink, but apt to prove 'laxa- 
tive when taken in large quantities. 

Weiss 
ordinary 

wheat malt. The proportions %w 



Beer.—This differs from the 
lager beer m that it contains 



wheat to \ barley malt, 1 pound hops" 
being used with a peck of the combined 
malt to each 20 gallons of water. A 
good deal depends on the yeast, which 
must be of a special kind, ;the best grades 
being imported from Germany. 

Yellow Coloring for Beverages.— Th 
coloring agents employed are fustic, saf- 
fron, turmeric, quercitron, and the va> 
rious aniline dyes. Here are some for 
inulas: 

I.— Saffron 1 ounce 

Deodorized alco- 
hol 4 fluidounces 

Distilled water . 4 fluidounces 
Mix alcohol and water, and then ad 
the saffron. Allow the mixture to stan 
in a warm place for several days, shakin 
occasionally; then filter." The tinctur. 
Vhus prepared has a deep orange color, 
and when diluted or used in small quan- 
tities gives a beautiful yellow tint t 
syrups, etc. 
II. — Ground fustic 

wood 14 ounces 

Deodorized alco- ' 

hoi . . 4 fluidounces 

Distilled water. .. 4 fluidounces 
This color may be made in the same 
manner as the liquid saff ron, and is a fin* 
coloring for many purposes. 
m .-Turmeric powder.... 8 ounce. 

Alcohol, dilute 16 ounce 

for several days, agitatin 



Macerate 



bev- 



frequently, and filter ^Fjome^ ^ 
erages the addition of this t* n ^ ftfises a 



to be recommenaea 
very spicy taste 



as it possesses 

aniline dyes ree- 
lect 



auc 



•fhe nonpoisonous ainu^ ^ 

ommended for ^l^J^ yeUo* 
beverages hquor S essence^ iiow A 

are those known as aeia j 
tropEfiolin 000 (orange A). 

BICYCLE VARNISHES : 

gee Varnishes. 



120 

BIDERY METAL: 

See Alloys. 

BILLIARD BALLS: 
See Ivory and Casein. 

BIRCH BALSAM: 

See Balsam. 

BIRCH WATER: . 
See Hair Preparations. 

BIRD DISEASES AND THEIR REM- 
EDIES: ^ 
See Veterinary Formulas. 

BIRD FOODS: 

See also Veterinary Formulas. 

Mixed Birdseed.— 

Canary seed 6 P arts 

Rape seed 2 P arts 

Maw seed 1 P art 

Millet seed 2 parts 

Mocking-Bird Food, — 

Cayenne pepper .... 2 ounces 

Rape seed 8 ounces 

Hemp seed. . 16 ounces 

Corn meal 2 ounces 

Rice 2 ounces 

Cracker 8 ounces 

Lard oil 2 ounces 

Mix the solids, grinding to a coarse 
powder, .and incorporate the oil. 

Food for Redbirds. — 

Sunflower seed 8 ounces 

Hemp seed 16 ounces 

Canary seed 10 ounces 

Wheat 8 ounces 

Rice 6 ounces 

Mix and grind to coarse powder. 

BIRD LIME: 

See Lime. 

BIRD PASTE: 

See Canary-Bird Paste. 
BISCHOFF: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

BISCUIT, DOG: 

See Dog Biscuit. 

BISMUTH ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 

BISMUTH, PURIFICATION OF- 

bee Gold. 

BITTERS: 

See Wines and Liquors, 
BITTER WATER: 
See Waters. 

BLACKING FOR HARNESS : 
faee Leather. 



BLEACHING 



BLACKING FOR SHOES ; 

See Shoedressings. 

BLACKING, STOVE: 

See Stove Blackings and Polish^ 
BLACKBERRY CORDIAL ANfi m 1 
BERRY MIXTURE A3 a 
ERA REMEDY: A Ca 0L 

See Cholera Remedy. 

BLACKBOARD PAINT AND VARwt«t, 
See Paint and Varnish. ARB1S H : 

BLACKHEAD REMEDIES: 

See Cosmetics. 

BLANKET WASHING ; 

See Household Formulas. 

BLASTING POWDER: 

See Explosives. 



Bleaching 

Linen. — Mix common bleaching pow- 
der in the proportion of 1 pound to a 
gallon of water; stir it occasionally for 

3 days, let it settle, and pour it off clear. 
Then make a lye of 1 pound of soda to 
1 gallon of boiling water, in which soak 
the linen for 12 hours, and boil it half an 
hour; next soak it in the bleaching 
liquor, made as above; and lastly, wash 
it in the usual manner. Discolored 
linen or muslin may be restored by put- 
ting a portion of bleaching liquor into 
the tub wherein the articles are soaking. 

Straw. — L— Dip the straw in a solution 
of oxygenated muriatic acid, saturated 
with potash. (C-Tysenated muriate ot 
lime is much cheaper.) The straw | 
thus rendered very white, and its flexi- 
bility is increased. . , 

IL— Straw is bleached by simply ex- 
posing it in a closed chamber to t| 
fumes of burning sulphur. An old nW 
barrel is the apparatus most used tor 
purpose by milliners, a flat stone l> j 
laid on the ground, the sulphur W 
thereon, and the barrel containing m 
goods to be bleached turned ovwb 
The goods should be previously w* 
in pure water. , J 

Wool, Silk, or Straw.--M« tog^ f 

4 pounds of oxalic acid, * I o0( Js 
table salt, water 50 gallons. ^ oUr; 
are laid in this mixture tor lcaC } lC d, 
they are then generally well j nse d 
and only require to be thoroii^ ^ jt j s 
and worked. For bleaching « s0t !», 
best to soak the goods in caus J^tf 
and afterwards to make use o sS 0 f 
of lime or Javelle water. J- ue 



BOILER COMPOUNDS 



121 



hlorine is afterwards removed by hypo- 
jSphite of soda. 

Feathers. — Place the feathers from 
a f a 4 hours in a tepid dilute solution 
f bichromate of potassa, to which, 
,ti*nnslv. some nitric acid has been 
fdded a small quantity only) To 
tZove a greenish hue induced by this 
solution, place them m a dilute solu- 
tion of sulphuric acid, in water, whereby 
the feathers become perfectly white and 
bleached. 

Bleaching Solution. Aluminum h , po- 
cbloridc, or Wilson's bleaching liquid, is 
produced by adding to a clear soluf in of 
lime chloride a solution of aluminum 
sulphate (alumina, alum) as long as a 
precipitate keeps forming- By mutual 
decomposition aluminum chloride re- 
sults, which remains in solution, and 
lime 'sulphate (gypsum), which separates 
out in the form of an insoluble salt. 

BLIGHT REMEDIES. 

I.— Soft soap 40 parts 

Amyl alcohol 50 parts 

Methylated spirit. 20 parts 
Water 1,000 parts 

II. — Soft soap 30 parts 

Sulphureted pot- 
ash 2 parts 

Amyl alcohol 32 parts 

Water..... 1,000 parts 

III. — Soft soap 15 parts 

Sulphureted pot- 
ash 29 parts 

Water 1,000 parts 

BLEACHING WATER: 

The most efficient bleaching water and 
also the cheapest to prepare, provided 
you have the facilities, is sodium hypo- 
chlorite, A solution of sodium chloride 
18 subjected to electrolysis. For this 
purpose a source of cheap electric cur- 
rent, such as that provided by abundant 
water power, is necessary. The current 
is all 0W ed to flow until all the salt is con- 
verted into caustic soda at the cathode 
chlorine at the anode. The mixture 
i f se * Wo substances forms sodium 
"ypochlorite which is bottled as is. 

Two other waters are as follows: 
j. bodium carbonate^lO pounds. Dis- 
a" 1 two £ allons of water. Add two 
^unds chloride of lime. Let stand one 

2 then filter " 

^■Dissolve two pounds of chloride of 
iWn ln or, e gallon of water. Dissolve 
Wat pox i nds of alum in one gallon of 
^filter together - Let stand one day 



BLUE FROM GREEN AT NIGHT m 
DISTINGUISH : ■WUxHT, TO 

To distinguish blue from green at 
night use either the light of a magnesium 
Wire ior this purpose or take a number 
of Swedish (parlor) matches, light them 
and as soon as they flash up, observe the 
told ' U ™ fference can be easilj 

BLEACHING BLUE PRINTS: 

A four per cent solution of soda and 
water will lighten over-exposed blue- 
prints or will bleach them nearly whit 
if desired; add more soda to bleach coi 
pletely. 

BLUE PRINTS, TO MAKE CHANGES 
AND CORRECTIONS ON : 

Use a solution of sodium carbonat 
and water, with a little red ink mixed ii 
This gives a very pleasing pink color tc 
the changes which, at the same time, 
very noticeable, The amount of sodiui 
carbonate used depends upon the sur 
face of the blue-print paper, as some 
coarse-grained papers will look better 
less soda is used and vice versa. How- 
ever, the amount of powdered soda belt 
on a small coin dissolved in a bottle 
water gives good results. 
BLUE PRINT MARKING FLUID: 

1 ounce potassium oxalate 

1 ounce gum arable 

1 dram (60 grains) water 

6 ounces cobalt-blue to color 
BOIL REMEDY. 

Take a piece of soft linen or borate 
gauze, rub some vaseline, upon one sic 
of it, quickly pour upon it some chlort 
form, apply it to the unopened boil or 
carbuncle, and place a bandage oyer all- 
It smarts a little at first, but this is sooi 
succeeded by a pleasing, cool sensation. 
The patient is given a bottle of the rem- 
edy, and directed to change the clotD 
often. In from 2 hours to 1 day - th« 
boil (no matter how induratedj sonei 
and opens. 



Boiler Compounds 

There are three chemicals wMd.« 
known to attack boiler scale. Theje «J 
caustic soda, soda ash, and tannic aciu 
compounds, the last being der.ved fron 
sumac, catechu, and the exhausted bail 
liauor from tanneries. . . 

q CausUc soda in .large excess is mp 
pious to boiler fittings, gaskets, valve 



BOILER COMPOUNDS 



etc 



Tbat.it is injurious, in reasonable 

s, 
> b 

may be causeu ^/^Y/welY known by 



■■"to the boiler tubes themselves is 
CX r t0 be proved. Foaming and priming 
l ^le Jused through excess of caustic 



Tannic ac- 



id 



soda or soda ash, as is 

the form of albuminoids, and with . cal 
cium and magnesium carbonates F at 
S removes scale is an assured fact, that 
removes iron with the scale is also 
LUrXas tannic acid con-odes an iron 

widely advertised, but they often contain 
dextrine and gum, both of which are 
dangerous, as they coat the tubes ^wit a 
compact scale, not permitting the water 
to reach the iron >lo asses is acid and 
should not be used in the boiler. Starch 
substances generally should be avoided. 
Kerosene must be dangerous, as it is 
yery volatile and must soon leave tlie 
boiler and pass over and through the 
engine. , . - 

There are two materials the use ot 
which in boilers is not prohibited through 
action upon the metal itself or on ac- 
count of price. These are soda ash and 
caustic soda. Sodium triphosphate and 
sodium fluoride have both been used with 
success, but their cost is several hundred 
per cent greater than soda ash. If pre- 
scribed as per analysis, in slight excess, 
there should be no injurious results 
through the use of caustic soda and soda 
ash. It would be practicable to manu- 
facture an intimate mixture of caustic 
soda and carbonate of soda, containing 
enough of each to soften the average 
water of a given district. 

There is a great deal of fraud in con- 
nection with boiler compounds gener- 
The better class of venders ad- 
ertise to prepare a special compound for 
special water. This is expensive, save on 
large scale, in reference to a partic- 
ular water, for it would mean a score or 
more of tanks with men to make up the 
mixtures. The less honest of the boiler- 
compound guild consign each sample of 
water to the sewer and send the regular 
goods. Others have a stock analysis 
which is sent to customers of a given 
locality, whether it contains iron, lime, 
or magnesium sulphates or carbonates. 

Any expense for softening water in 
excess of 3 cents per 1,000 gallons is for 
the privilege of using a ready-made soft- 
ener. Every superintendent in charge 
ot a plant should insist that the com- 
pound used be pronounced by competent 




authority free from injurious nvaterkl 
and that it be adapted to the water "' 
use. ln 
Boiler compounds should contain onl 
such ingredients as will neutralize th 
scale-forming salts present. They should 
be used only by prescription, ao m^; 
gallons per 1,000 gallons of feed JJJ 
A properly proportioned mixture of SOr k 
ought to answer the demands of all plants 
depending upon that method of softening 
water in limestone and shale regions. 

The honest boiler compounds are 
however, useful for small isolated plants' 
because of the simplicity of their action'. 
For plants of from 75 to 150 horse power 
two 24-hour settling tanks will answer 
the purpose of a softening system. Each 
of these, capable of holding a day's sup- 
ply, provided with a soci. tank in com- 
mon, and with sludge valves, has pad- 
dles for stirring the contents. Large 
plants are operated on this principle, 
serving boilers of many thousand horse 
power. Such a system has an advan- 
tage over a continuous system, in that 
the exact amount of chemical solutions 
required for softening the particular 
water can be applied. For some varia- 
tions of such a system, several companies 
have secured patents. The fundamen- 
tal principles, however, have been used 
for many years and are not patentable. 

Prevention of Boiler Scale.— The lime 
contained in the feed water, either as bi- 
carbonate or as sulphate, is precipitated 
in the shape of a light mud, but the walls 
of the boiler remain perfectly bright 
without being attacked in any manner. 
While under ordinary atmospheric pres- 
sure calcium chr ornate in solution is pre- 
cipitated by soda or Glauber s salt J 
calcium carbonate or as calcium . aw 
phate; the latter is separated unae 
higher pressure by chromates as calcium 
ch°romate. An excess of chromatej or 
chromic acid does not exercise any a 
terious action upon the metal, n 
the materials used for packing. 3 
slight admixture of chromates, 
pounds are sufficient for a sm are 
for weeks; no injurious ingreu J*^* 
carried in by the wet steam, ■ _ been 
water, on the contrary, Jiavms 
found to be chemically pure. , 
Protecting Boiler Plates from Sea 
I.— For a 5-horse-power b^' glll „ 
with water which contains- i* 
phatc, take catechu, 2 P° l ! soaa , J 
trine, 1 pound; crystallizes sugflr , * 
pounds; potash, * P ou " Lnm atabic. 
pound; alum, £ pound; S um 
pound. 




BOILER COMPOUNDS 



123 



TT jr or a boiler of the same size, fed 

■,h water which contains lime: Tur- 
■ g pounds; dextrine, 1 pound; so- 
y C Z , bicarbonate, 2 pounds; potash, £ 
nd; alum, \ pound; molasses, \ 

P °nl --For a hoiler of the same size, fed 
.7, wa ter which contains iron: Gam- 
2 pounds; soda, 2 pounds; dex- 
. b ?5p f 1 pound; potash, 1 pound; sugar, 
| pound; alum, £ pound; gum arable, £ 

P^y^J-For a boiler of the same size, fed 
;th sea water: Catechu, 2 pounds; 
Glauber's salt, 2 pounds; dextrine, 2 
p 0lin ds; alum, * pound; gum arable, $ 

P °When these preparations are used add 
1 quart of water, and in ordinary cases 
charge the boiler every month; but if the 
incrustation is very bad, charge every 
two weeks, 

V. — A method which has wide approval 
for the treatment of water to be used in 
boilers is the following: 

The water to be treated is percolated 
through a silica gel sold under the name 
of "Doucil." This material is capable of 
removing 6 per cent of its weight in lime 
from the water and its valuable feature 
lies in the fact that it can be regenerated 
and used over thousands of times. To re- 
generate it simply percolate brine water 
through it. "Doucil" is a sodium alumi- 
num silicate. 

VI. — A paint for protecting boiler plates 
from scale, and patented in Germany, is 
composed of 10 pounds each of train oil, 
horse fat, paraffine, and of finely ground 
zinc white. To this mixture is added 40 
pounds of graphite and 10 pounds of 
soot made together into a paste with 
1| gallons of water, and about a pound 
°f carbolic acid. The horse fat and the 
zinc oxide make a soap difficult to fuse, 
which adheres strongly to the plates, and 
b "ids the graphite and the soot. The 
Paraffine prevents the water from pene- 
iralmg the coats. The scale which forms 
°n .this application can be detached, it is 
said, with a wooden mallet without in- 
iunng the paint. 

jj, J, Asselin, of Paris, recom- 

ends the use of glycerine as a preventive. 
\ ^creases the solubility of combinations 
' ume, and especially of the sulphate, 
i lorms with these combinations soluble 
^pounds. When the quantity of lime 
}w C ^ es so S Te at that it can no longer 
t;^ s ?°! veu > »«r form soluble combina- 
josited in a gelatinous sub- 



stance which never adheres to the sur- 
face of the iron plates. The gelatinous 
substances thus formed are nit carried 
with the steam into the cylinder of the 
engine M. Asselin advises the employ- 
ment of 1 pound of glycerine for every 
300 pounds or 400 pounds of coal burnt 
Prevention of Electrolysis. —In order 
to prevent the eating away of the sheets 
and tubes by electrolytic action, it has 
long been the practice of marine engi- 
neers to suspend slabs of zinc in their 
boilers. The zinc, being more suseepti 
ble to the electrolytic action than th 
iron, is eaten away, while the iron re- 
mains unimpaired. The use of zinc ii 
this way has been found also to reduce 
the trouble from boiler scale. Whethei 
it be due to the formation of hydrogen 
bubbles between the heating surfaces 
and incipient scale, to the presence in the 
water of the zinc salts resulting from the 
dissolution of the zinc, or to whatever 
cause, it appears to be a general conclu- 
sion among those who have used it thi " 
the zinc helps the scale, as well as tl 
corrosion. Nobody has ever claimet 
for it that it prevented the attachment 
scale altogether, but the consensus 
opinion is that it ' 'helps some." 

BOILER PRESSURE. 

It hardly pays to reduce pressure 
boilers, except in very extreme eases, but 
if it can be done by throttling before the 
steam reaches the cylinder of the engine 
it would be an advantage, because this 
retains the heat units due to the higher 
pressure in the steam, and the throttling 
has a slight superheating effect. As a 
matter of" fact, tests go to show that tor 
light loads and high pressure a throt- 
tling engine may do better than an auto- 
matic cut-off. The ideal _ arrangemcn 
is to throttle the steam for light - loads, tor 
heavier loads, allow the van a bk j cut-off 
to come into play. This practice > has 
been carried into effect by Ae de^n o 
Mr. E. J. Armstrong, m ^J^J, 
ranges the shaft governor so that thwea 
negative lead up to "f^TbecTml 
rut-off, after wWh the lead become 
positive, and this ^ertrf^ 
fling the steam. for tg^^^ny, in 
undoubtedly gives bet f ™°» UI1 £ ore 
addition to making the engm 
quietly. 

BOKE BLACK : 

Bone or Ivory Ma cK. q£ 
ivory is bone in a jenje^ 
framework of £ r / S ice3 f wh 

SSS^StS is embedded. Hence 



on 



ncJt 



BONE BLACK 



124 

• heated red-hot in a cl° se , d 
b0De | organic matter is destroyed, 
vessel, the orgamc 1^ d e 

Wvinc carbon, in a nneiy uiv* 
jeavnif, honv framework, 11 tne 

lodged in the bony . b ne re . 

heat is applied gradua lly tbe J o 
tains its shape, but is i quite Wa£ a § 

ft lat^u-d tebtajjtagj 
For example, in the vast industry ^ 
fugar manufacture, the solutions hrst 
Sde are very dark in co or > a ter hi 
tration through animal charcoal will give 
colorless crystals on evaporatiom Chem- 
ical trades require such large quantities 
of bone charcoal that its production . is 
a large industry in itself. As m breaking 
up the charred bones a considerable 
amount of waste is produced, in the form 
of dust and small grams which cannot be 
used for bleaching purposes, this waste 
should be worked up into a pigment. 
This is done by dissolving out the mineral 
with hydrochloric acid, and then rinsing 
and drying the carbon. 

The mineral basis of bones consists 
mainly of the phosphates of lime and 
magnesia, salts soluble in not too dilute 
hydrochloric acid. A vat is half filled 
with the above-mentioned waste, which 
is then just covered with a mixture of 
equal volumes of commercial hydro- 
chloric acid and water. As the mineral 
matter also contains carbonates, a lively 
effervescence at once ensues, and small 
quantities of hydrofluoric acid are also 
formed from the decomposition of cal- 
cium fluoride in the bones. Now hydro- 
fluoric acid is a very dangerous sub- 
stance, as air containing even traces of it 
is very injurious to the lungs. Hence the 
addition of hydrochloric acid should be 
done in the open air, and the vat should 
be left by itself until the evolution of 
fumes ceases. A plug is then pulled out 
at the bottom and the carbon is thor- 
oughly drained. It is then stirred up 
with water and again drained, when it 
has fully settled to the bottom. This 
rinsing with clear water is repeated till all 
the hydrochloric acid is washed away 
and only pure carbon remains in the vat. 
As for pigment-making purposes it is 
essential that the carbon should be as 
nnely divided as possible, it is as well to 
grind the washed carbon in an ordinary 
color mill. Very little power is required 
tor this purpose, as when once the bone 
earth is removed the carbon particles 
nave little cohesion. The properly 
ground mass forms a deep-black mud, 
which can be left to dry or be dried by 



artificial heat. When dry, the mirifioA 
hone black is of a pure black and S 
a most excellent pigment. Kea 
Bone black is put, upon the mark* 
tinder all sorts of names, such as i V n 
black, ebur ustum, Frankfort black neii 
tral black, etc. All these consist uf 
finely ground bone black puriEed from 
mineral matter. If leather scraps 
dried blood are to be worked up, i ron 
tubes are employed, closed at one ead 
and with a well-fitting lid with a small 
hole in it at the other. As these bodies 
give off large volumes of combustible 
gas during the charring, it is a good plan 
to lead the vapors from the hole by a 
bent tube so that they can be burnt and 
help to supply the heat required and so 
save fueh Leather or blood gives a char- 
coal which hardly requires treatment 
with hydrochloric acid, for the amount 
of mineral salts present is so small that 
its removal appears superfluous. 

BOWES, A TEST FOR BROKEN. 

Place a stethoscope on one side of the 
supposed fracture, and a tuning fork on 
the other. When the latter is vibrated, 
and there is no breakage, the sound will 
be beard distinctly through bone and 
stethoscope. Should any doubt exist, 
comparison should be made with the 
same bone on the other side of the body, 
This test shows the difference in the 
power of conducting sound possessed by 
bone and soft tissue. 

BONE BLEACHES; 
See Ivory. 

BONE FAT: 
See Fats. 

BONE FAT, PURIFICATION AND 
BLEACHING OF: 

See Soap. 

BONE POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 

BONE FERTILIZERS : 

See Fertilizers. 
BONES, TREATMENT OF, IN MANU- 
FACTURING GLUE: 
See Adhesives. 
BONE, UNITING GLASS WITH: 

See Adhesives. 
BOOKS, THEIR HANDLING 
PRESERVATION: Ho t 
The Preservation of Boo ks fciy 
Climates. -Books in hot ^f^rdel 
deteriorate unless carefully n c ' ie s: 
There are three destructive *g ( # 
(1) damp, (2) a small black mse 
cockroaches. 



125 



fi\ Books which are kept in a damp 
*tmosphe™ deteriorate on account of 
Kds and fungi that grow rapidly when 
|! conditions are favorable. Books 
p best kept on open, airy, well-lighted 

helves. When there has been a pro- 
\ led spell of moist weather their covers 
Sid be wiped, and they should be 

], ce d in the sun or before a hre for a 
!w hours Damp also causes the bind- 
ings and leaves of some books to sep- 

flra r?) A small black insect, one-eighth of 
H n inch long and a sixteenth of an inch 
broad somewhat resembling a beetle is 
very destructive, and books will be 
found, if left untouched, after a few 
months to have numerous holes in the 
covers and leaves. If this insect be al- 
lowed plenty of time for its ravages it 
will make so many holei that bindings 
originally strong can be easily torn to 
pieces. All damage may be prevented 
by coating the covers of books with the 
varnish described under (3). When 
books are found to contain the insects 
they should be well wrapped and placed 
in the sun before varnishing. 

(3) The appearance of a fine binding 
may be destroyed in a single night by 
cockroaches. The lettering of the bind- 
ing may, in two or three days, be com- 
pletely obliterated. 

The following varnishes have been found 
to prevent effectually the ravages of 
cockroaches and of all insects that feed 
upon books: 

I.— Dammar resin 2 ounces 

Mastic 9. ounces 

Canada balsam 1 ounce 

Creosote \ ounce 

Spirit of wine 20 fl. ounces 

Macerate with occasional shaking for 
a few days if wanted at once, but for a 
longer time when possible, as a better 
varnish will result after a maceration of 
several months. 

, II- — Corrosive sublimate, 1 ounce; car- 
bolic acid, 1 ounce; methylated or rum 
sP'nj, 1 quart. 

^Vhere it is necessary to keep books or 
Paper of any description in boxes, cup- 
r^yds, or closed bookcases, some naph- 
thalene balls or camphor should be al- 
ways present with them. If camphor 
Use d it is best to wrap it in paper, 
otherwise it volatilizes more quickly tnan 
^ necessary. In dry weather the doors 
°i closed bookcases should be left open 
occasionally, as a damp, still atmosphere 
m os t favorable for deterioration. 

How to Open a Book.— Never force the 



ts back on a smooth or covered table- 
let the front board down, then the Sh« 
holding the leaves in one hand while yoj 
open a few leaves at the back, then a few 
at the front, and so on. alternately open- 

ng back and front, gently pressing o^pen 
the sections till you reach the center ? 
the volume. Do this two or three times 
and you will obtain the best results 
Upen the volume violently or carelessl 
in any one place and you will probabl 
break the back or cause a start in th 
leaves. 

BOOK DISINFECTANT: 

See Disinfectants. 

BOOKS, TO REMOVE FINGER-MARK 
FROM: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Metb. 
ods. 

BOOKBINDERS' VARNISH: 

See Varnishes. 

BOOKWORMS : 

See Insecticides. 

BOOT DRESSINGS: 
See Shoe Dressings. 

BOOT LUBRICANT : 

See Lubricant. 

BOOTS, WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing. 

BORAX FOR SPRINKLING-. 

I. — Sprinkling borax is not o 
cheaper, but also dissolves less in solde 
ing than pure borax. 

The borax is heated m a metal ves 
until it has lost its water of crystalhzati 
and mixed with calcined cooking s 
and potash— borax, 8 parts; cooki 
salt, 3 parts; potash, 3 parts, iVext 
is pounded in a mortar into a fine po 
dor, constituting the sprinkling borax. 

II. — Another kind of sprinkling bor 
is prepared by substituting, 8 1 W*' 1 1 
theVtash. GUw-gaJl is the froth floa 
ing on the melted glass, whmh can d 

skimmed off. t , .•_ no 

The borax is either dusted I on m po 

paste. 

BORAX AND BORIC ACID IN FOO 

See Food. 
BORDEAUX MIXTURE: 

See Insecticides. 

BOROTONIC: 
See Dentifrices. 



126 

BOTTLE-CAP LACQUER: 

See Lacquer. 
BOTTLE CLEANERS : 



BOTTLES 



d Meth- 



Solution F: Solution of 



sulphide, drachm i; or pyrogSu c °Si? 
drachm i. a » 
Package G: Pulverized potassium bi 
carbonate, drachm iss. U1 "1 
Having poured two teaspoonfulg nf 
solution A into the wine bottle, treat thp 
wine glasses with the different solutions 
noting and remembering i nto which 
glasses the several solutions are placed 
Into No. 1 wine glass pour one or two 
drops of solution B; into No. 2 g l a3a 
pour one or two drops of solution C; into 
No. 3 one or two drops of Solution 1> 
leave No. 4 glass empty; into No. 5 glass 
pour a few drops of Solution E; into No. 
6 glass place a few grains of Package G- 
into No. 7 glass pour a little of solution p'. 
Request some one to bring you some 
cold drinking water, and to guarantee 
that it is pure show that your wine bot- 
tle is (practically) empty. Fill it up 
from the carafe, and having asked the 
audience whether you shall produce wine 
or water, milk or ink, etc., you may ob* 
tain any of these by pouring a little of 
the water from the bottle into the pre- 
pared glass. Thus No. 1 glass gives a 
port-wine color; No. 2 gives a sherry 
color; No. 3 gives a claret color; No. 4 is 
left empty to prove that the solution in 
the bottle is colorless; No. 5 produces 
milk; No. G, effervescing champagne; 
No. 7, ink. 

Bottle-Capping Mixtures.— 
I.— Soak 7 pounds of good gelatin hi 
10 ounces of glycerine and 60 ounces of 
water, and heat over a water bath until 
dissolved, and add any desired color. 
Pigments may be used, and various tints 
can be obtained by the use of auilme 
colors. The resulting compound should 
be stored in jars. To apply ^ W* 11 ? 
mass and dip the cork and P 0 . rt j°.J. °J 
the neck of the bottle into the liquid, 
sets very quickly. 

II.-Gelatlu Jo™" 

Gum arable J° W l° 

tt?.::::::::»«~d 

Mix the gelatin, gum arao , d 
boric acid with 14 flmdounces or | 
water, stir occasionally until tn fejj in g ( 
dissolved, heat the mixture to^ ^ 
remove the scum, and strain. ; n der 
the starch intimately with tne re 
of the water, and stir this ™ lxl uni f or m 
the hot gelatin mixture unt " * e the 
product results. As noted _ a sUl t- 
eomposition may be tinted w« ^ s0 fg 
able dye. Before using, it musv 
ened by the application of neai. 



See Cleaning P^P^Xthods 
ods, under Miscellaneous Methods. 

BOTTLE STOPPERS: 

See Stoppers. 
BOTTLE VARNISH : 

See Varnishes. 

BOTTLE WAX: 

See Photography. 
HYDRAULIC BRAKE FLUID 
FOR AUTOMOBILES: 

The liquid compressant used in the hy- 
draulic brakes of the modem a, nto con- 
sists of equal parts of denatured alcohol 
and castor o3. The alcohol thins the od 
and acts as an anti-freeze The castor 
oil lubricates the piston and is the fluid 
through which the pressure is trans- 
mitted. 

BEAN, SAWDUST IN. 

For the detection of sawdust in bran 
use a solution of 1 part of phloroglucm 
in 15 parts of alcohol, 15 parts of water, 
and 10 parts of syrupy phosphoric acid. 
Place 2 parts of the solution in a small 
porcelain dish, add a knifepointful of 
the bran and heat moderately. Saw- 
dust is dyed red while bran parts only 
seldom acquire a faint red color. Bv a 
microscopic examination of the reddish 
parts, sawdust will be readily recognized. 



Bottles 

Magic Bottles. — 

The mystery of the "wonderful bot- 
tle," from which can be poured in suc- 
cession port wine, sherry, claret, water, 
champagne, or ink, at the will of the op- 
erator, is easily explained. The mate- 
rials consist of an ordinary dark-colored 
pint wine bottle, seven wine glasses 
of different patterns, and the chemicals 
described below: 

Solution A: A mixture of tincture of 
ferric^ chloride, drachms vi; hydro- 
chloric acid, drachms ii, 

Solution B: Saturated solution of am- 
monium sulphocyanide, drachm i. 

Solution C: Strong solution of ferric 
chloride, drachm i. 

Solution D: A weak solution of am- 
monium sulphocyanide. 

Solution E: Concentrated solution of 
lead acetate. 




rtI -Shellac S ounces 

Venice turpentine 1 £ ounces 

Boric acid 72 grains 

Powdered talcum. 3 ounces 

Ether.. J fluidrama 

Alcohol. - 12 * fhiidounces 

Dissolve the shellac, turpentine, and 
bor ic acid in the mixed alcohol and ether 
Linr with a spirit-soluble dye, and add 
|e talcum. During use the mixture 
Joust be agitated frequently. 
Show Bottles.— 

t place in a cylindrical bottle the 

fnllowin" liquids in'the order named: 

First, "sulphuric acid, tinted blue with 
inaVoY second, chloroform; third, glyc- 
erine, slightly .tinted with caramel; 
fourth, castor oil, colored with alkanct 
root; fifth, 40-per-eent alcohol, slightly 
tinted with aniline green; sixth, cod- 
liver oil, containing 1 per cent of oil of 
turpentine- The liquids are held iu 
place by force of gravity, and alternate 
with fluids which are not miscible, so 
that the strata of layers are clearly de- 
fined and do not mingle by diffusion. 

II. — Chromic acid 1 drachm 

Commercial "muri- 
atic" acid % ounces 

Nitric acid. 2 ounces 

Water, enough to 

make 3 gallons 

The color is magenta. 

The following makes a fine pink for 
show carboys: 

III. — Cobalt oxide. . ...... % parts 

Nitric acid, c. p 1 part 

Hydrochloric acid 1 part 

Mix and dissolve, and to the solution 
add: 

Strongest water of 

ammonia. 6 parts 

Sulphuric acid 1 part 

Water, distilled, q. s. 

to make 400 parts 

This should be left standing in a dark, 
cool place for at least a month before put- 

IV.— Green.— Copper sulphate, 300 
parts, by weight; hydrochloric acid. 450 
Parts, by weight; distilled water, to 4,500 
Parts, by weight. 

i v -— Blue.— Copper sulphate, 480 parts, 
°y weight; sulphuric acid, 60 parts, by 
height' distdled water > to 450 parts, by 
— Yellowish Brown. — Potassium 
af.M m 1 ir,ate ' 120 P arts ' b ? weight; nitric 
t?l I Parts, by weight; distilled wa- 



4,500 parts, by Weight 



SO 



■irrZ pai ua, i)y welkin. 

, *■ bellow. — Potassium dichromate, 
Parts, by weight; sodium bicarbon- 



trated ammonium-acetate solution, l?o 
par s by weight; acetic ac id, 30 per 

to 9,000 parts, by weight, - 

IX.— Crimson.— Potassium iodide 7 5 
parts by weight; iodine, 7.5 parts, by 
weight; hydrochloric acid, 60 parts by 
weight; distilled water, to 4,500 parts 
by weight. 

All the solutions IV to IX should be 
filtered. Xf distilled water be used these 
solutions should keep for five to ten years. 
In order to prevent them from freezing, 
either add 10 per cent of alcohol, or re- 
duce the quantity of water by 10 per cent. 

A Cheap and Excellent Werming 
Bottle. — Mix sodium acetate and scdium 
hyposutphale in the proportion cf 1 part 
of the former to fl parts of the latter, and 
with the mixture fill an earthenware bottle 
about three-quarters full. Closetbe ves- 
sel well with a cork and place it either 
in hot water or in the oven, and let re- 
main until the salts within melt. For 
at least a half day the jug will radiate its 
heat, and need only be well shaken from 
time to time to renew its heat-giving 
energy. 

Bottle Deodorizer.— Powdered black 
mustard seed is successfully employed. 
Pour a little of it with some lukewarm 
water into the receptacle, rinsing it after- 
wards with water. If necessary, repeat 
the process. 

BRANDY AND BRANDY BITTERS 

See Wines and Liquors. 



Brass 

Formulas for the making of Brass will be 
found under Alloj 3. 

eutuponthe duration of the emersion. 

With a solution composed ot 

Sulphate of copper.-- 120 grains 
Hydrochlorate of am- ^ 

monia """ 1 quart 
Water 

IS iw brown to cinnamon .re ol 
tained: 



128 



BRASS 



Chlorate of potash. 150 grains 
|,phateof?oppe r ... U gram* 

Water * ^ 

The following solution gives the brass 
first a rosy tint and then colors it violet 
and blue: 

Sulphate of copper. . 435 grams 
Hvposulphite of soda 300 grams 

Cream oftartar 150 grains 

Water 1 P mt 

Upon adding to the last solution 
Ammoniacal sulphate 

of iron • 300 grains 

Hyposulphite of soda 300 grams 
there are obtained, according to the dura- 
tion of the immersion, yellowish, orange, 
rosy, then bluish shades. Upon polar- 
izing the ebullition the blue tint gives 
way to yellow, and finally to a pretty 
gray. Silver, under the same circum- 
stances, becomes very beautifully col- 
ored. After a long ebullition m the 
following solution we obtain a yellow- 
brown shade, and then a remarkable fire 
red: 

Chlorate of potash ... 75 grains 
Carbonate of nickel . . 30 grains 

Salt of nickel 75 grains 

Water 16 ounces 

The following solution gives a beau- 
tiful, dark-brown, color: 

Chlorate of potash . . 75 grains 

Salt of nickel 150 grains 

Water 10 ounces 

The following gives, in the first place, 
a red, which passes to blue, then to pale 
lilac, and finally to white: 

Orpiment 75 grains 

Crystallized sal sodse 150 grains 

Water 10 ounces 

The following gives a yellow brown: 

Salt of nickel 75 grains 

Sulphate of copper. . 75 grains 
Chlorate of potash . . 75 grains 

Water 10 ounces 

On mixing the following solutions, 
sulphur separates and the brass becomes 
covered with iridescent crystallizations: 

I. — Cream of'tartar 75 grains 

Sulphate of copper. . 75 grains 

Water 10 ounces 

II- — Hyposulphite of soda 225 grains 

Water 5 ounces 

Upon leaving the brass objects im- 
mersed t in the following mixture con- 
tained in corked vessels thev at length 
acquire a very beautiful blue* color: 
Hepar of sulphur .... 15 grains 

Ammonia 75 grains 

Water... 4 ounces 



Miscellaneous Coloring of Brass — 
Yellow to bright red: Dissolve 2 Tj a ' rt _ 
native copper carbonate with 1 pljl 
caustic soda in 10 parts water. Bin 
a few minutes into the liquor, the Va 
rious shades desired being obtained 
according to the length of time of the 
immersion. Green: Dissolve 1 part cop- 
per acetate (verdigris), 1 part 
vitriol, and 1 part alum in 10 parts of 
water and boil the articles therein 
Black: For optical articles, photographic 
apparatus, plates, rings, screws, etc 
dissolve 45 parts of malachite (native 
copper carbonate) in 1,000 parts of sal 
ammoniac. For use clean and remove 
the grease from the article by pickling 
and dip it into the bath until the coating 
is strong enough. The bath operates 
better and quicker if heated. Should 
the oxidation be a failure it should be 
removed by dipping into the brass 
pickle. 

A verdigris color on brass is produced 
by treating the articles with dilute acids, 
acetic acid, or sulphuric acid, and drying. 

Brown in all varieties of shades is ob- 
tained by immersing the metal in solu- 
tions of nitrates or ferric chloride after 
it has been corroded with dilute nitric 
acid, cleaned with sand and water, and 
dried. The strength of the solutions 
governs the deepness of the resulting 
color. 

Violet is caused by immersing the thor- 
oughly cleaned objects in a solution of 
ammonium chloride. 

Chocolate color results if red ferric 
oxide is strewn on and burned off, fol- 
lowed by polishing with a small quantity 
of galena. 

Olive green is produced by blacken- 
ing the surface with a solution of iron m 
hydrochloric acid, polishing with galena, 
and coating hot with a lacquer composed 
of 1 part varnish, 4 parts cincuma, and I 
part gamboge. . , , 

A steel-blue coloring is obtained 07 
means of a dilute boiling solution 01 
chloride of arsenic, and a blue one ; by » 
treatment with strong hyposulphite 
soda. Another formula for MufflM 
brass is: Dissolve 10 parts of 
chloride in 200 parts of water, a nd ^. aa the 
parts of pure hydrochloric acid. W t 
article until it is well blued, then wasfl 
and dry in sawdust. . v..., g g 

Black is much used for optica] dt.^ 
articles and is produced by coa t,r h jj 8 
a solution of platinum or auric cm 
mixed with nitrate of tin. 

Coloring Unpolished Brass. •j-A H'JJ 
color of handsome effect is obtained 



BRASS 



139 



nlished brass by means of antimony- 
U Mnride solution. This is produced by 
finclv powdering gray antimony and bod- 
- it with hydrochloric acid. With 
Sanation of hydrogen sulphide a solu- 
tion of antimony results, which < > , r 



not 

he'dUuted with water, since a white pre- 

iedTately formed upc 

ter For dilution, 
Sed 'cooking -salt solution is employed 
gSg for 1 P art of * alimon y chloride % 



■nitate of antimony oxychloride is im- 
cllJ j:„fol v formed upon admixture of 
For dilution, completely satu- 



parts 



of salt solution. 



Coloring Fluid for Brass. — Caustic 
soda 33 parts; water, 24 parts; hydraled 
carbonate oE copper, 5.5 parts. 

Dissolve the salt m water and dip the 
metal in the solution obtained. The in- 
tensity of the color will be proportional 
to the time of immersion. After remov- 
ing the object from the liquid, rinse with 
water and dry in sawdust. 

Black Color on Brass. — A black or ox- 
idized surface on brass is produced by a 
solution of carbonate of copper in am- 
monia. The work is immersed and al- 
lowed to remain until the required tint 
is observed. The carbonate of copper is 
hest used in a plastic condition, as it is 
then much more easily dissolved. . Plas- 
tic carbonate of copper may be mixed as 
follows: Make a solution of blue vitriol 
(sulphate of copper) in hot water, and 
add a strong solution of common washing 
soda to it as long as any precipitate 
forms. The precipitate is allowed to 
settle, and the clear liquid is poured off. 
Hot water is added, and the mass stirred 
and again allowed to settle. This oper- 
ation is repeated six or eight times to re- 
move the impurities. AEter the water 
has been removed during the last pour- 
ing, and nothing is left but an emulsion 
of the thick plastic carbonate in a small 
quantity of water, liquid ammonia is 
added until everything is dissolved and a 
dear, deep-blue liquid is produced. If 
too strong, water may be added, but a 
strong solution is better than a weak one. 
« it is desired to make the solution from 
tW m n rc ^ P^ astic carbonate of copper 
P?? following directions may be followed: 
^issolve 1 pound of the plastic carbonate 
°I copper in 2 gallons of strong ammonia, 
lufi glVCS rec l mre< l strength of so- 

T h |hrass which it is desired to black- 
^ n is first boiled in a strong potash solu- 
ri° n remove grease and oil, then well 
■wh-u a L d di PP ed in the copper solution, 
pencil has previously been heated to 



fr. 



om iso c 



previ 

to 175° F. This solution, if 



^ated too hot, gives off all the ammonia. 



The brass is left m the solution until the 
required tint is produced. The coW 
produced is uniform, blaek, and tena! 
cious. The brass is rinsed Ind dried in 
sawdust. A great variety of effects may 
be produced oy hrst finishing the brass 
before blackening, as the oxidizing proc- 
ess does not injure the texture of the 
metal. A satisfactory finish is produced 
by first rendering the surface of the 
brass matt, either by scratch-brush or 
similar methods, as the black finish thus 
produced by the copper solution is dead 
— one of the most pleasing effects of an 
oxidized surface. Various effects may also 
be produced by coloring the entire article 
and then buffing the exposed portions. 

The best results in the use of this so- 
lution are obtained by the use of the SO' 
called red metals — i. e., those in whicl 
the copper predominates. The reasoL 
for this is obvious. Ordinary sheet brass 
consists of about % parts of copper and 1 
part of zinc, so that the large quantity of 
the latter somewhat hinders the produ< 
tion of a deep-black surface. Yellow 
brass is colored black by the solutioi 
but it is well to use some metal having 
reddish tint, indicating the presence oi 
large amount of copper. The varietif 
of sheet brass known as gilding or bronz 
work well. Copper also gives exceller 
results. Where the best results are d( 
sired on yellow brass a very light electrt 
plate of copper before the oxidizmf 
works well and gives an excellent blacl 
With the usual articles made of yehoi 
brass this is rarely done, but the oxxdf 
tion carried out directly. 

Black Finish for Brass. — I. — A haw 
some black finish may be put on bras 
by the following process: Dissolve u 
1,000 parts of ammonia water 45 parts o, 
natural malachite, and in the solution m 
the object to be blackened after firs 
having'caref ully and thoroughly clean* 
the same. After letting it stand a short 
time gradually warm the 
aminiSg the article from time to taw 
to ascertain if the color is deep enougn. 
Rinse and let dry. fce 

II. -The blacking of. b ™ ss . ^fj! 
accomplished by Vver 

l °T g ^burne? of a 2 spirit W 
a Bunsen burner »* ti r f ammo - 

A - dd a SSelo a seated copper 
mum carbonate to «_ n fa pree ipj t ate 
sulphate «*ubo£ «J f « P,^ 
resulting m the begmm g jon and 

tirely dissolve^ The on 
heating repeat fa d and dippe d 

rn^veS^ordul. varnish- 



ISO 



To Give a Brown Color to Brass.— I.— 
In 1 000 parts of rain or distilled water 
dissolve 5 par^ each of verdigris (copper 
acetate) and ammonium chloride, x-et 
the solution stand 4 hours, then add 1,500 
parts of water. Remove the brass to be 
browned from its attachment to the nx- 
tures and make the surface perfectly 
bright and smooth and free from grease. 
Place it over a charcoal fire and heat un- 
til it "sizzes" when touched with tne 
dampened finger. The solution is then 
painted over the surface with a brush or 
swabbed on with a rag. If one sjab- 
bing does not produce a sufficient deptn. 
of color, repeat the heating and the ap- 
plication of the liquid until a fine durable 
brown is produced. For door plates, 
knobs, and ornamental fixtures gener- 
ally, this is one of the handsomest as well 
as the most durable surfaces, and is 
easily applied. 

II. — A very handsome brown may be 
produced on brass castings by immersing 
the thoroughly cleaned and dried articles 
in a warm solution of 15 parts of sodium 
hydrate and 5 parts of cupric carbonate 
in 100 parts of water. The metal turns 
dark yellow, light brown, and finally 
dark brown, with a greenish shimmer, 
and, when the desired shade is reached, 
is taken out of the bath, rinsed, and dried. 

HI. — Paint the cleaned and dried sur- 
face uniformly with a dilute solution of 
ammonium sulphide. When this coat- 
ing is dry. it is rubbed over, and then 

{tainted with a dilute ammoniacal so- 
ution of arsenic sulphide, until the 
required depth of color is attained. 
If the results are not satisfactory the 
painting can be repeated after washing 
over with ammonia. Prolonged im- 
mersion in the second solution produces 
a grayish-green film, which looks well, 
and acquires luster when polished with 
a cloth. 

Refreshing Gas Fixtures. — Gas fix- 
res which nave become dirty or tar- 
ished from use may be improved in ap- 
earance by painting with bronze paint 
nd then, if a still better finish is re- 
uired, varnishing after the paint is 
thoroughly dry with some light-colored 
arnish that will give a hard and brilliant 
oating. 

If the bronze paint is made up with 
rdinary varnish it is liable to become 
discolored from acid which may be pres- 
ent in the varnish. One method pro- 
posed tor obviating this is to mix the 
varnish with about five times its volume 
ot spirit of turpentine, add to the mixture 
dried slaked lime m the proportion of 



about 40 grains to the pint, agitate m , 
repeating the agitation several times ar!l 
finally allowing the suspended matter tn 
settle and decanting the clear linrnli 
The object of this is to neutralize a ™ 
acid which may be present. To deter 
mine how effectively this has been done 
the varnish may be chemically tested. 

Steel Blue and Old Silver on Br ass _ 
For the former dissolve 100 parts of ear- 
bonic carbonate in 750 parts of ammonia 
and dilute this solution with distilled 
water, whereupon the cleaned articles 
are dipped into the liquid by means of a 
brass wire. After two to three minutes 
take them out, rinse in clean water, and 
dry in sawdust. Old silver on brass is 
produced as follows: The articles are 
first silvered and next painted with a thin 
paste consisting of graphite, 6 parts; 
pulverized hematite, 1 part; and tur- 
pentine. Use a soft brush and dry well; 
then brush off the powder. Oxidized 
silver is obtained by dipping the silvered 
goods into a heated solution of liver of 
sulphur, 5 parts; ammonia carbonate, 10 
parts; and water,10,000 parts. Only sub- 
stantially silvered objects are suited for 
oxidation, as a weak silvering is taken 
off by this solution. Unsatisfactory col- 
oring is removed with potassium-cya- 
nide solution. It is advisable to lay the, 
articles in hydrogen sulphide-ammonia 
solution diluted with water,wherein they 
acquire a blue to a deep-black shade. 

Tombac Color on Brass. —This is pro 
duced by immersion in a mixture of cop 
per carbonate, 10 parts; caustic soda, W 
parts: water, 200 parts. This layer will 
only endure wiping with a cloth, not vig- 
orous scouring with sand. 

Graining of Brass.— Brass parts of 
timepieces are frequently provided wita 
a dead grained surface. For this pur- 
pose they are fastened with flat-headed 
pins on cork disks and brushed witnj 
paste of water and finest P° wd .ff r a 
pumice stone. Next they are taorj 
oughly washed and placed in a swutkj 
of 10 quarts of water, 30 grains of rag 
curie nitrate, and 60 grains ot suJP" 
acid. In this amalgamating s0 ' u H th 
the objects become at once coverea arT , a l. 
a layer of mercury, which forms an i 
gam with the copper, while tne g 
passes into solution. After the » r te j 
have again been washed they are i q{ 
with graining powder, *'^ b J^l sa lt. 
silver powder, tartar, and toOK V* aD d 
These substances must be pure, a, J> . g 
very finely pulverized. *Vcordi D ' 
done with moderate heat- ^ cc 



BRASS 



181 



h e ther a coarser or finer grain is de- 

t0 j mnre cooking salt or more tartar 

Sire I' contained In the powder. The 

^narv proportions are: 

° r .wrier 28 28 28 parts 

gilver po«u* - gg3 no _ 140 85 

parts 

rSBagValt"" 900 370 900 parts 

This powder is moistened with water 
J applied to the object. Place the article 
>h the cork support in a flat dish and 
Son the paste with a stiff brush while 
Sung the dish incessantly. Gradu- 
Sv fresh portions of graining . powder 
fie put on until the desired gram is ob- 
fJined These turn out the rounder the 
more the dish and brush are turned. 
When the right grain is attained, rinse 
off with water, and treat the object with 
a scratch brush, with employment of a 
decoction of saponaria. .The brushes 
must be moved around in a circle in 
brushing with the pumice stone, as well 
as in rubbing on the graining powder 
and in using the scratch brush. Ihe 
required silver powder is produced by 
precipitating a diluted solution of silver 
nitrate with some strips of sheet copper. 
The precipitated silver powder is washed 
out on a paper filter and dried at moder- 
ate heat. 

The Dead, or Matt, Dip for Brass.— 

The dead dip is used to impart a satiny 
or crystalline finish to the surface. The 
bright dip gives a smooth, shiny, and per- 
fectly even surface, but the dead dip is 
the most pleasing of any dip finish, and 
can be used as a base for many secondary 
finishes. 

The dead dip is a mixture of oil of 
vitriol (sulphuric acid) and aqua fortis 
(nitric acid) in which there is enough 
sulphate of zinc (white vitriol) to saturate 
the solution. It is in the presence of the 
sulphate of zinc that the essential differ- 
ence between the bright and the dead dip 
exists, "Without it the dead or matt sur- 
face cannot be obtained. 

The method generally practiced is to 
a dd the sulphate of zinc to the mixed 
a cids (sulphuric and nitric), so that some 
remains undissolved in the bottom of the 
vessel. It is found that the sulphate of 
zinc occurs in small crystals having the 
a PPearance of very coarse granulated 
sugar. These crystals readily settle to the 
bottom of the vessel and do not do the 
£ork of matting properly. If they are 
Dn ely pulverized the dip is slightly im- 
proved, but it 'is impossible to pulverize 
^ch material to a fineness that will do 
the desired work. The use of sulphate 
^pc, then, leaves much to be desired, 
■the most modern method of making 



of 



up the dead dip ^ to produce ihe sul. 

?nft°,l Z1DC directl y, in the solution 
and in the precipitated form. It is ^ e U 
known tha the most finely divided ma- 
terials are those which »re produced by 
precipitation, and in the dead dip it is 
very important hat * ne sulphate of zinc 
shall be finely d'wded so that it will no" 
immediately settle to hebottcm. Ther 
fore it should be precipitated so that 
when it is mixed with the acids it will not 
settle immediately. The method of mak- 
ing the sulphate of zinc directly in the 
solution is as follows: 

Take 1 gallon of yellow aqua forti 
(38° F.) and place in a stone crock 
which is surrounded with cold water 
The cold water is to keep the hea 
formed by the reaction, from evaporatin 
the acid. Add metallic zinc in sma 
pieces until the acid will dissolve n 
more. The zinc may be in any conve - 
ient form — sheet clippings, lumps, era 
ulated, etc., that may be added little b 
little. If all is added at once it will bo 
over. "When the acid will dissolve n 
more zinc it will be found that some 
the acid has evaporated by the heat, an 
it will be necessary to add enough free 
acid to make up to the original gallo 
When this is done add 1 gallon of strong 
oil of vitriol. The mixture should b 
stirred with a wooden paddle while th 
oil of vitriol is being added. 

As the sulphuric acid is being add 
the solution begins to grow milky, a 
finally the whole has the consistency 
thick cream. This is caused by the s 
phuric acid (oil of vitriol) precipitati 
out the sulphate of zinc. Thus the ve 
finelv divided precipitate of sulphate 
zinc'is formed. If one desires to u 
known quantities of acid and zinc t 
following amounts may be taken, un 
vitriol, 1 gallon; aqua fortis (38 £*h 
gallon; metallic zinc, 6 ounces. 
g In dissolving the zinc in the = aqua fo 
tis it is necessary to be sure that none 
mains undissolved in the bottom 

The dead or matt dip is used hot, an 
therefore, 

the dip thorough y stored with a ^ ate 
paddle so as to . bring uptfe «. 
zinc which has settled. V V > un , 
the solution andaUow .U . g & . 
the matt is ob^f- ]y by experienc 

which °***}?^^ 7 f$t introduc 
When the brass giirfacej £ 

there is a rapid action ^ R 

hl % f X S rrSl d eand and immed 

atel> -diP i^othe usual bright dip. 1 



132 



BRASS 



„ f nr +he reason that the dead 
ig necessary for tne r«<* „ 



5p produ- , . d-k — upon the 

r the color of the 
show the reai e however re- 

So'vt this" and looses the true dead 

surface. makine up the dead 

The usual rule for -wA tin g P f vitriol 

dip is to « M «^ u h ^ P£? e may be altered 
f nd a ffie S' M re oiltf vitriol gives 
°I ta t while a larger q-^ty f 
Vvr+i-s will give a coarser matt. 
Xn the oip "beeves old it is unneces- 
sary to add more zinc, as a little goes into 
fhfsofution each time anything is dipped. 
After a while, however, the solution be- 
comes loaded with copper salts; and 
should be thrown away. 

A new dip does not work well, and 
will not give good results when used at 
once It is usual to allow it to remain 
over night, when it will be found to be in 
a better working condition in the morn- 
ing. A new dip will frequently refuse to 
work, and the addition of a little water 
will often start it. The water must be 
used sparingly, however, and only when 
necessary. Water, as a usual thing, 
spoils a dead dip, and must be avoided. 
After a while it may be necessary to add 
a little more aqua fortis, and this may be 
introduced as desired. Much care is 
needed in working the dead dip, and it 
requires constant watching and experi- 
ence. The chief difficulty in working 
the dead dip is to match a given article. 
The only way that it can be done is to 
"cut and try," and add aqua fortis or oil 
of vitriol as the case requires. 

The dead or matt dip can be obtained 
only upon brass or German silver; in 
other words, only on alloys which con- 
tain zinc. The best results are obtained 
upon yellow brass high in zinc. 

To Improve Deadened Brass Parts. — 
Clock parts matted with oilstone and 
oil, such as the hour wheels, minute 
wheels, etc., obtain, by mere grinding, a 
somewhat dull appearance, with a sensi- 
tive surface which readilv takes spots, 
lliis may be improved by preparing the 
following powder, rubbing a little of it 
on a burr slick and treating the deadened 
parts, which have been cleansed with 

> cork. Tins imparts to the articles a 



luater Ti. perma " ent ' metallic matt 
of a n».. * e - Smo , othl . n 8 Powder consists 
Le P carLn l ew ? er - S retf and 8 P^ts of 
wdl drl,^ ^ ] T% ated in ™r, and 
em Gloved K e we'ers red alone may be 
employed, but this requires some 



tice and care, especially in the treats 
of wheels, because rays are r u 611 
form from the teeth toward the center t0 

Pickle for Brass.— Stir 10 PSLT u' t , 
weight) of shining soot or snuff m V 
of cooking salt, and 10 parts of tpaV 
tar with 250 parts of nitric acid a 
afterwards add 250 parts of sulphS 
acid; or else mix 7 parts of aqua fort' 
(nitric acid) with 10 parts of English 
sulphuric acid. For the mixing ratio of 
the acid, the kind and alloy of the metal 
should be the guidance, and it is best 
found out by practical trials. The bet 
ter the alloy and the less the percentage 
of zinc or lead, the handsomer will be 
the color. Genuine bronze, for instance 
acquires a golden shade. In order to 
give brass the appearance of handsome 
gilding it is often coated with gold var- 
nish by applying same thinly with a brush 
or sponge and immediately heating the 
metal over a coal fire. 

Pickling Brass to Look Like Gold.— 
To pickle brass so as to make it resem- 
ble gold allow a mixture of 6 parts of 
chemically pure nitric acid and 1 part of 
English sulphuric acid to act for some 
hours upon the surface of the brass; then 
wash with a warm solution, 20 parts of 
tartar in 50 parts of water, and rub off 
neatly with dry sawdust. Then coat 
the article with the proper varnish. 

Pickle for Dipping Brass.— To im- 
prove the appearance of brass, tombac, 
and copper goods, they are usually 
dipped. For this purpose they arc first 
immersed in diluted oil of vitriol (brown 
sulphuric acid), proportion, 1 to 10; next 
in a mixture of 10 parts of red tartar; iu 
parts of cooking salt; 250 parts ol Eng- 
lish sulphuric acid, as well as 250 parts or 
aqua fortis (only for a moment), ringing 



oft well in water and drying w sa J v, „ ol(i 



,'dust. 

For obtaining a handsome matt gel 
color part of zinc vitriol (zinc sw 
phate) is still added to the pickle. 



Restoration of Brass Articles.-'*^ 
brass articles are first freed from ac 



prac- 



.;•<! e of hot soda lye^ 

bronzed they are dipped m ah igWJ 
solution of suit 



the 

Eire dipped m a n«uv ■ 
lphuricacid and rinsed * 
ftext thW are yellowed W 

nitric acid, 75 P^ ts > 
100 parts; ?b«"J*£fi 



aalt, 1 . 
nd, to prev 



cut 
irit 



clean water, 
a mixture of 
phuric acid, 
black, 2 parts; cooking 
rinsed and polished - , - s p ir ii 

oxidation, coated with a col0 £ - n(T best 
varnish, a celluloid varnish W u & 
for this purpose. ^ j o0 

Tempering Brass.— If ^^dV^ 
brittle brass can be tempered a 




BRICK 



133 



ore even hardness throughout by 

f^Wt must not be nearly so great, 
the * t^ed to the blue heat of steel, is 
B raSS ' t C nft again. To soften brass, heat 

rlv to a <* u11 red aIld all ° W il t0 C ° o1 ' 
ltD if a time is an object, it may be cooled 

by plunging into water. 

Drawing Temper from Brass.— Brass 
■ s rendered hard by hammering or roll* 
■a therefore when a brass object re- 
3« to be tempered the material must 
ff prepared before the article is shaped. 
Temper may be drawn from brass by 
heating it to' a cherry red and then sim- 
D ly plunging it into water, the same as 
though steel were to be tempered. 

BREWING BEER: 

Beer is produced by the alcoholic fer- 
mentation of a mixture of malted barley 
and hops. 

Barley is steeped in water to soften 
the husk and to make the grain Teady for 
the sprouting process. The moist grains 
are set aside for about eight days during 
which time sprouting takes place. 

The grains are then dried and ground 
to a coarse powder. 

The powder is placed in a mash tub 
and live steam is applied to it. This 
converts the starch into maltose and 
other sugars, This liquid which is called 
wort is heated, for several hours and 
during this time hops are added. The 
hops give the beer its bitter taste. 

The solution is drawn off from the 
solid matter and cooled. 
_ Yeast is now added and the fermenta- 
tion which begins almost immediately is 
allowed to continue for about 10 to 12 
days depending upon the termperature. 

The beer is then aged for several 
Months and finally the clear product is 
drawn off from the sediment and bottled. 

Remedies for Fetid Breath.— Fetid 
weath may be due to the expelled air 
U-e., to disease of the respirational tract), 
Y> gases thrown off from the digestive 
tract, or to a diseased mouth. In the 
m two cases medication must be di- 
la i *° tQe causative diseases, with the 
traV ar ^ tlse P s i s principally and the neu- 
anzation oE the saliva, also the removal 
an residual food of dental caries. 

^ Potassium perman- 
ganate. 1 part 

■Distilled water. . . . 10 parts 

dii?* a nd dissolve. Add from- 5 to 8 
aatf solution to a glass of water 



II.— Inf 



infusion of salvia 25 0 parts 
Glycerine ... 30 

Tincture of myrrh 12 parts 
Imcture of Uvea- 

T 4 er 12 parts 

-Labarraque s so- 

lutiott 80 parts 

Mix. Rinse the mouth 
with this mixture. 



frequentl 



^ith it gargle the mouth. 



III. — Decoction of cham- 

° mil ? 30 parts 

Glycerine SO parts 

Chlorinated water. 15 parts 

Mix. Use as a gargle and mout 
wash. 

IV. — Peppermint water 500 parts 

Cherry-laurel wa- 
ter 60 parts 

Borax Q& parts 

Mix and dissolve. Use as gargle an 
mouth wash. 

V.— Thymol 3 parts 

Spirit of cochlea- 

ria 300 parts 

Tincture of rhat- 

any 100 parts 

Oil of peppermint 15 parts 

Oil of cloves 10 parts 

Mix. Garble and wash mouth w 
with 10 drops m a glass of water. 

VI. — Salol 5 parts 

Alcohol m . 1,000 parts 

Tincture of white 

canella §0 parts 

Oil of pepper- 
mint 1 P art 

Mix. Use as a dentifrice. 
VII.— Hydrogen perox- 

ide 25 parts 

Distilled water. . . 100 parts 
Mix. Gargle the mouth twice da 1 
with 2 tablespoonf uls of the mixture i 
glass of water. 

VIII. -Sodium bioarbon- g ^ 
three times daily. 

BRICK STAIN * 

T ° St ^ black to ^ Venetian red until 
stone, add black to r Jf | w 

the desired to with tnrpen- 

ground in oil used tn ^ & 

tine, using a hWj 3 P ^ shade ad d 
k k rub 1 Vh h e%Tlf k dow P n J using a brie* 



134 



BRONZING 



pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 



fnr a rubber, until the surface is uniform, 
Ind keep It \vdl wet while rubbing with 
dement water, made by stirring Portland 
Sen! into water until the water ^ok. 
the color of the cement. 1 his opera, 
lion Ms the pores of the brick and make, 
a smooth, uniform surface to paint on. 
Tinse the wash with a Uttte dry Vene- 
tian red and lampblack. This will help 
briL the brick to a uniform color so that 
an even color can be obtained with one 
coat of stain. 

BRICK OF MOTH REPELLANT. 
(Cake Form): 

Powdered black pepper 
Powdered cedar sawdust 
Powdered gum camphor 
Powdered cassia bark . . 

Powdered mvrrh 5 ounces 

Powdered soap 5 ounces 

Oil of lemon 2 drams 

Wood alcohol sufficient 

Add oil of lemon to pepper, mixing 
uatil it is absolutely absorbed, no mois- 
ture remaining, and the pepper again 
perfectly dry and in "powder" form as it 
was before the oil was added. Then add 
the other powders mentioned above, mix- 
ing the whole mess most thoroughly to- 
gether. At this point add just enough 
wood alcohol as is sufficient to form the 
powdered mixture into a stiff mass, which 
is then to be rolled out until about one 
inch in thickness. This big flat "cake" 
is then to be cut into small cakes or 
"bricks." Each brick should be wrapped 
in parchment paper to protect it from 
the air. 

BRITANNIA METAL: 

See Alloys. 

BRITANNIA METAL, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

BRITANNIA, SILVERPLATLNG : 
See Plating. 

BROMINE, ANTISEPTIC; 
See Antiseptics. 

BROMOFORM. 

Bromoform is insoluble in dilute al- 
cohol, but may be dissolved by the aid of 

fc e T 6: 7 he follo ™g formula has 
Deen devised: 

Bromoform i part 

cfc: hoL V-. 2 Jarts 

Compound tincture of 

cardanion 2 parts 

Gl y cenne U parts 



Some other formulas are: 

Syrup of Bromoform.— Bmrr^t 
parts; alcohol (05 per cent) JT 
■ Jl : — isn „„«4.„r__. 40 Parts. 



glycerine, 150 parts;" syrup"," 800 
Riix m the order given and place the 
tainer in warm water until the syrun 
comes perfectly clear. 1 Be - I 

Emulsion of Bromoform.^ Add 3 
of bromoform to 80 parts of exp ress g*| 
of almond; emulsify this uJxture in \hi 
usual manner with 2 parts ot powder S 
tragacanth, 4 parts of powdered acacia 
and sufficient water, using f or the com 
pleted emulsion a total of 120 parts of 
water, and add, finally, 4 parts of cherry, 
laurel water. 

Bromoform Rum. — Bromoform, 1 g 
parts; chloroform, 0.8 parts; rum, 'suffi- 
cient to make 120 parts. Claimed to 
be an effective remedy in the treatment of 
whooping cough. 



BRONZES : 

See Alloys. 

BRONZE CASTING: 

See Casting. 

BRONZE, IMITATION: 
See Plaster. 

BRONZE POLISHES: 
See Polishes. 

BRONZE, RENOVATION OF: 

See Cleaning Compounds. 

Bronze Powders, Liquid 
Bronzes, Bronze Substitutes, 
and Bronzing 

BRONZE POWDERS. 

Gold bronze is a mixture of equal 
parts of oxide of tin and sulphur, wmcn 
are heated for some time in an eartJic 
retort. Silver bronze is a mixture o 
equal parts of bismuth, tin, and f&r&m 
which are fused in a crucible, '™°) ng b f s _ 
mercury only when the tin and tn ^ 
muth are in fusion. Next reduce y 
fine powder. To apply 



very une powder, -i u »rr» , . 
bronzes, white of egg, gum oraW > 
varnish is used. It is preferable 



these 
or 

P- 

above- 



than 



to 



ply them dry upon one of the 
named mediums serving as size \""- for 
mix them with the liquids thcmsei , > A 
in the latter case their luster is imp _^ 
Simple Coloring of Bronze Po Tj S 'to 
In order to impart different c 



BRONZING 



135 



powders, such as pale yellow, 
f> r0llZC llow to copper red., the powder is 
dark je« const ant stirring m fiat iron 
heB ,,ntil through the oxidation of the 
pans u j ie bronzes consist ot the brass 
c opP ei " f an alloy trom which the so- 

prfrjutcli gohfis produced— the de- 
called IJUtc ^ js reache(J As a 

very small quantity of fat, wax, or 
ru MrVfline is added in this operation. 
Sj^Snnze powders are employed to 
^"coatfngs or certain finishes on 
PT n . themselves or to give articles of 
Rjf rtoS pasteboard, etc., a metalhe 
appearance. 

General Directions for Bronzing. ~The 
,l,oicc of bronze powders is determined 
f y the degree of brilliancy to be ob- 
tained. The powder is mixed with 
f on- sum water or ismglass, and laid 
SKr&i a brush or pencil, almost but not 
absolutely dry. A piece ot soft leather, 
wrapped around the finger, is dipped into 
the powder and rubbed over the work; 
when all this has been covered with the 
bronze it must be left to dry, and the 
loose powder is then cleared away with 
a hair pencil. 

LIQUID BRONZES. 

Liquid Bronzes.— I.— Pot the produc- 
tion of liquid bronze, acid-free varnish 
should be used, as bronze ground with 
ordinary varnish will form verdigris. 
For the" deacidification of dammar rosin 
pour 1,000 parts of petroleum benzine 
over 350 parts of finely ground dammar 
rosin, and dissolve by repeated shaking. 
Next add to the solution 250 parts of a 
10-pcr-cent aqueous solution of caustic 
soda and shake up well for 10 minutes. 
After standing for a short time two 
strata will have formed, the upper one 
consisting of benzine-rosin solution and 
the lower, aqueous one containing the 
resinic aeid dissolved as soda salts. Pour 
°tt the benzine layers and agitate again 
assiduously with 250 parts of the 10-per- 
wnt caustic-soda solution. Now set 
asj de for a complete classification and 
reparation of the two liquids. The 
J a mm ^ solution siphoned off will be per- 
fectly tree from acid. To obtain gold- 
™onze varnish add to the deaeidified 
amm ar solution about 250 parts of 
Br ^e or brocade per liter. 

— ° r else carefully mix 100 parts of 
Q{ e 'y ground dammar rosin with 30 parts 
whi v, ClnGd soda an d heat to fusion, in 
Wh f ate St is maintained 2 or 3 hours 
thetn i e T eilt stirrin R- Let CQo1 ' P rin , d 
coal b ■ lnas3 obtained, and pour a little 



mass is dissolved; filter aft er Sin 
settle; into the filJS "J? SM^JS 
parts of bronze powder of any desired 
shade, the brocades being e S pe<daUy weP 
adapted for this purpose.* 5 If the rnetalli 
powder remains distributed over thi 
mass for a long time it is of the rieh 
consistency; if it deposits quickly it i 
too thin and a part of the solvent mus 
be evaporated before stirring in th 
bronze powder. 

III.— A liquid bronze, which, whil 
it contains no metallic constituent, ye 
possesses a metallic luster and a bronz 
appearance, and answers excellently fo 
many purposes, is made as follows 
Dissolve by the aid of gentle heat 1 
parts of aniline red and 5 parts of anilin 
purple in 100 parts of alcohol. Whe 
solution is complete, add 5 parts of be 
zoic acid, raise the heat, and let he 
from 5 to 10 minutes, or until the gree 
ish color of the mixture passes over to 
clear bronze brown. For "marbling 
or bronzing paper articles, this answe 
particularly well. 

Incombustible Bronze Tincture. 
Finely pulverize 5 parts, by weight, 
prime Dammar Tosm and 1.5 parts 
ammonia soda. Heat gently, and stir ir 
quently, until no more carbonic acid bu 
bles up. Cool and pulverize agam. f 
the powder into a glass carboy, and po 
over it 50 parts of carbon tetrachlond 
let this stand for 2 days, starring fx 
quently. Then filter. Ten Pyta oft 
fluid are mixed with 5 parts ot metal 
bronze of any desired shade, and p 
LtoTottles! 'Shake well before using- 

General Formulas for Eronzing Prep 
general roi sU Wta 

rations . -1 • lake am f . 

of copper, 120 parts oxide oT zinci^ p 

Unseed oil and turp^ntine^ 



iseeu uii """Von r»arts sulphate 
II. -Dissolve 120 parts 

copper and add 1*»V ecinJ tati 
tin; stir well and gather^ £ 

"l-Melt -^S^aeidfstir 
md GO part ^Sure takes oi 



euzme or petrol eum benzine over 



pentine. crucible 60 parts s 

1 III.— Melt m £ uc acjd . stir wi 

phurand 60 Mfg^ture takes on 
£ clay tube until the and pour 

appearance of f or with boiled Ii 

An cold m JJ tjj n ;g° t adding » 
seed o.l and tjrP en These three b_ro£ 
1 & -v-ed -th a pale, - 



1S6 

in rooms wnerc 



BRONZING 



with a 
tronzed piece 

St H— If the article is of brass it must 
be given a coat of copper by means of 
theStery. Next dip a brush m olive 
oil and brush the piece uniformly; let 
dry for 5 or 6 hours and place in saw- 
dust. Then heat the article on a mod- 
erate charcoal dust fire. 

Preparation of French Bronze.— 
French bronze may be prepared by re- 
ducing to a powder hematite, 5 parts, 
and plumbago, S parts, and mixing into a 
paste with spirit of wine. Apply the 
composition with a soft brush to the 
article to be bronzed and set it aside for 
some hours. By polishing with a toler- 
ably hard brush the article will assume 
the beautiful appearance of real bronze. 
The desired tint may be regulated by the 
proportions of the ingredients. 

How to Bronze Metals.— Prepare a 
solution of lh ounces of sodium hyposul- 
pnite in 1 pint of water and add to the 
same a solution of li ounces of lead 
acetate dissolved in 1 pint of water. 

If, instead of lead acetate, an equal 
weight of sulphuric acid (1$ ounces) is 
added to the sodium hyposulphite and 
the process carried on as before, the 
brass becomes coated with a very beau- 
tiful red, which changes to green, and 
finally a splendid brown with a green 
and red iridescence. This last is a very 
durable coating and may be especially 
recommended. It is very difficult to 
dbtain exact shades by this process with- 
out some experience. The thorough 
cleansing of all articles from grease by 
boiling in potash is absolutely necessary 
to success. By substituting other metal 
salts for the lead acetate many changes 
m tints and quality of the coatings can 
also be effected. 

When this mixture is heated to a tem- 
perature a little below the boiling point 
it precipitates sulphide of lead in a state 
of tine division. If some metal is pres- 
ent some of the lead is precipitated on 
the surface and, according to the thick- 
ness of the layer, different colors are pro- 
duced. To produce an even color the 
articles must be evenly heated. By im- 
mersion of brass articles for 5 minutes 



color 



the same may be coated with v 
varying from gold to copper red, then i 
carmine, dark red, and trom HcrV.1- w 



ue 



to blue white, and at last a reddish whh " 
depending on the time the metal remain 
in the solution and the temperature useri 
Iron objects treated in this solution tak 
a steel-blue colur, zinc a brown color I 6 
the case of copper objects a golden yellow 
cannot be obtained. 

New Bronzing Liquid.— Dissolve 1(V 
parts of fuchsme and 5 parts of aniline 
purple in 100 parts of alcohol (95 percent) 
and add to the solution 5 parts of ben- 
zoic acid. Boil the whole for 10 min- 
utes until the color turns bronze brown. 
This liquid can be applied to all metals 
and dries quickly. 

A Bronze for Brass. — Immerse the 
articles, freed from dirt and grease, in a 
cold solution of 10 parts of potassium 
permanganate, 50 parts of iron sulphate, 
5 parts of hydrochloric acid in 1,000 
parts of water. Let remain 30 seconds, 
then withdraw, rinse, and let dry in fine, 
soft sawdust. If the articles have be- 
come too dark, or if a reddish-brown 
color be desired, immerse for about 1 
minute in a warm (140° F.) solution of 
chromic acid, 10 parts; hydrochloric 
acid, 10 parts; potassium permanganate, 
10 parts; iron sulphate, .50 parts; water, 
1,000 parts. Treat as before. If the 
latter solution alone be used the product 
will be a brighter dark-yellow or red- 
dish-brown color. By heating in a dry- 
ing oven the tone of the colors is im- 
proved. 

To Bronze Copper,— This process is 
analogous to the one practiced at the 
Mint of Paris for bronzing medals. 

Spread on the copper object a solution 
composed of: 

Acetate or chlorhy- 

drate of ammonia . . 30 parts 

Sea salt 10 parts 

Cream of tartar 10 parts 

Acetate of copper .... 1° P arts 
Diluted acetic acid. - . 100 parts 
Let dry for 24 to 4S hours at an ordi- 
nary temperature. The surface r 
metal will " 

of varying uum. xji^" — . 
brush. The green portions soaJtea 

chlorhydrate of ammonia will assu 
blue coloring, and those 1 



,crature. The surface w - 
become covered with a &e 
tints. Brush with a J*g 



- treated JJ 

carbonate will be thick and darkene • 

Bronzing and Patinizing of Small 1 ZLJ 
Articles.— Coatings of bronze tones . 



E 



atina shades may be produced 
y means of various liquids 



on 
but 




BRONZING 



x-,!p S before being worked upon, 
ar \a i be rubbed down with very fine 
should ery paper, to make them not 
nerfeclly metallic, but also some- 
°r 7 t?ou*U, as a consequence of which 
*,Lnnzl or patina coalings will adhere 
1 i better The best bronze or pa- 
*? -ffpcts on bronze are obtained by 
Bropta^g the article with a fairly 
£L deposit of brass rich m copper and 
Sen treating it like genuine brofize. The 

i tions used, however, rauK dways be 
Wmv diluted, otherwise they may eat 
entirely through the thin metallic coat- 

Bronzing of Zinc— Mix thoroughly SO 
" sal ammoniac, 10 parts of 



ing 



ESkte° of "potash, and 1,000 'parts of 
Vinegar. Apply with a brush or a rag 
several times, until the desired tint is 
produced. 

Bronze Gilding on Smooth Moldings.— 
A perfect substitute for dead gilding can- 
not be obtained by bronzing, because of 
the radically different reflection of the 
light, for the matt gilding presents to the 
light" a perfectly smooth surface, while 
in bronzing every little scale of bronze 
reflects the light in a different direction. 
In consequence of this diffusion of light, 
all bronzing, even the best executed, is 
somewhat darker and dimmer than leaf 
gilding. This dimness, it is true, ex- 
tends over the whole surface, and there- 
fore is not perceptible to the layman, and 
cannot be called an evil, as the genuine 
leaf gold is so spotted that a bronzed 
surface is cleaner than a gilt one. The 
following process is the best known at 
present: Choose only the best bronze, 
which is first prepared thick with pure 
spirit. Next add a quantity of water 
and stir again. After the precipitation, 
which occurs promptly, the water is 
poured off and renewed repeatedly by 
fresh water. When the spirit has been 
washed out again in this manner, the re- 
naming deposit, i. e., the bronze, is 
thinned with clean, good gold size. The 
Dr onze must be thin enough just to 
cover. The moldings are coated twice, 
the second time commencing at the op- 
posite end. Under no circumstances 
should the dry, dead gilding give off 
colo r when grasping it firmly. It it does 
Pat, either the size is inferior or the so- 
ut iou too weak or the mixture too thick. 

Incombustible Bronze Tincture. — Five 
Part 8 °c P" 1116 dammar rosin and 1.5 
v rts of ammonia soda, very finely pul- 
emed. Heat gently, with frequent 
acid ng * UDtil — e evo,ution °* cai "bonic 



and when cool pulverize again Put 
the powder into a glass carhnv vt* i 1 
over it 50 parts «f Sb« feSu^S 
let this stand for 2 «W a lc "»4"onae; 
quently, thea fi°ter Ten nlpU^f 7l" 
fluid are to be mixed wfth K 6 °L £ 
of metallic bronze of any desired snade 

Bronzing Engraved Ornaments.' 

Take bronze and stir with it pale copal 
varnish diluted one-half with turpentine 
With this paint the ornaments neatly! 
In $ hour the bronze will have dried. 
The places from which the bronze is to 
be removed, L e., where the bronze has 
overrun the polished surface, are dabbed 
with a small rag soaked with kerosene, 
taking care that it is not too wet, so as 
to prevent the kerosene from running 
into the ornament. After a short whik- 
the bronze will have dissolved and cai 
be wiped off with a soft rag. If thk 
does not remove it entirely, dab and wipt 
again. Finally finish wiping with a' 
especially soft, clean rag. Kerosei 
does not attack polish on wood. TL_ 
bronze must become dull and yet adhere 
firmly, under which condition it has a 
hardened color. If it does not become 
dull the varnish is too strong and shoubf 
be diluted with turpentine. 

Durable Bronze on Banners.— Tc 
render bronzes durable on banners, etc. 
the ground must be primed with gui 
arable and a little glycerine. Then aj 
ply the bronze solution, prepared wit 
dammar and one-tenth varnish. li 
stead of gum arabie with glycerine, gelt 
tine glue may also be employed as « 
underlay. 

BRONZE SUBSTITUTES. 

The following recipe is used m making 
imitation gold bronzes: 

Sandarac JJ part- 

Mastic ^ESs 

lKi ,u ! penh . ne -:: 

In the above dissolve: 
Metanil yellow and 
gold orange 

and add 

Aluminum, &aeiy Q ^ 
powdered r 

and shake. 



0.4 parts 



ceases. Then take from the fire, 



If a deeper shade if desired 
to use ethyl, ok 
the same proportio 



£ P'Xrfon oftmrtation eopp. 
Fortheprodu^on^^^ 

Sure' and dissolve tberem only go 



138 



BRONZING 



They are 
priced articles, as 



n <* oarts. and add aluminum 20 
^ whfrSK a handsome copper color 
P^^duced Metauil yellow 0 4 parts 
is proauceu. irlves with the same 

wifiout gold I orang- give* J ^ ^ 

ount <^f^J n £ m u S t not be 
bra ? , ff f„ fireer quantities, because 
SI luster o f B th "b-nze is materially 
IS Only pigments of certain 
SSSSu« "ul as solubility in alcohol, 
Relative instancy to reductive agents, 
Sf Stable; unsuitable are, tor instance, 
naphthol vellow, phenylene-diamin, etc. 
Ifewise only a lacquer of certain com- 
position is fit for use, other lacquers of 
Commerce, such as zapon (celluloid) 
facqSer being unsuitable. The. bronzes 
prepared in this manner excel in luster 
kni color effect; the cost is very low. 

suitable for bronzing low- 
tinware, toys, etc. 
tJnder the action of sun and moisture the 
articles lose some of their luster, but ob- 
jects kept indoors such as figures of plas- 
ter of Paris, inkstands, wooden boxes, 
etc., retain their brilliancy for years. 

Some use powdered aluminum and yel- 
low organic dyestufTs, such as gold orange. 
These are employed together with a var- 
nish of certain composition, which im- 
parts the necessary gloss to the mixture. 

BRONZE COLORING: 

To Color Bronze. — Bronze articles ac- 
quire handsome tempering colors by 
heating. In order to impart an old ap- 
pearance to new objects of bronze, they 
may be heated over a flame and rubbed 
with a woolen rag dipped in finely pow- 
dered graphite, until the desired shade 
is attained. Or else a paste is applied 
on the article, consisting of graphite 5 
parts and bloodstone 15 parts, with a suf- 
ficient quantity of alcohol. After 24 
hours brush off the dry powder. A hot 
solution composed of sal ammoniac 4 
parts, sorrel salt I part, vinegar 200 
parts, may also be brushed on. Another 
way is to dip the pieces into a boiling so- 
lution of cupric acetate 20 parts, and sal 
ammoniac 10. parts, dissolved in 60 to 
100 parts of vipegar. 

Patent bronzes (products colored by 
means of aniline dyes) have hitherto 
been used in the manufacture of toys and 
d£ luxe or fancy paper, but makers of 
wall or stained paper have recently given 
their attention to these products. Wall 
—or moire — paper prepared with these 
dyes furnishes covers or prints of silken 
gloss with a peculiar double-color effect 
in which the metallic brilliancy charac- 
teristic of bronze combines with the 
shade? of the tar pigments used. Very 



oi- 

dss- 



beautiful reliefs, giving rise to the m « t 
charming play of colors in pernenriu ? 8t 
or laterally reflected light, ar? pro ,? ^ 
by pressing the paper lengths or ? 
painted with amhne-bronze dyes t£ 
brass brocade and tin bronzes ser 
bases for the aniline dyes; of the ta^ ,aS 
ments only basic aniline dyes soluK 
alcohol are used. In coloring the n 1 
verized bronze care must be taken ffi 
the latter is as free as possible from 
ganic fats. Tar dyes should be 
solved in as concentrated a form as no 
sible in alcohol and stirred with the 
bronze, the pigment being then fixed on 
the vehicle with an alcoholic solution of 
tannin. The patent bronze is then 
dried by allowing the alcohol to evapo- 
rate. This method of coloring is purely 
mechanical, as the tar dyes do not com- 
bine with the metallic bronze, as is the 
case with pigments in which hydrate oi 
alumina is used. A coating of aniline 
bronze of this kind is therefore very sen- 
sitive to moisture, unless spread over 
the paper surface with a suitable protect- 
ive binding medium, or protected by a 
transparent coat of varnish, which of 
course must not interfere with the special 
color effect. 

Pickle for Bronzes. — Sulphuric acid, 
1,000 parts; nitric acid, 500 parts; soot, 
10 parts; sea salt, 5 parts. 

Imitation Japanese Bronze.— -When 
the copper or coppered article is per- 
fectly dry and the copper or copper 
coating made brilliant, which is produced 
by rubbing with a soft brush, put graph- 
ite over the piece to be bronzed so 
that, the copper is simply dyed. Wljg 
off the raised portions with a damp elotfl, 
so that the copper makes its appearance. 
Next put on a thin coat of Japanese var- 
nish; wipe the relief again and let dry. 
Apply 1 or 2 coats after the first is per- 
fectly dry. Handsome smoked hws 
may be obtained by holding the bronze 
either over the dust of lighted peat : or 
powdered rosin thrown on lighted cow, 
so as to obtain a smoke which wiIU-aaB 
the color of the varnish employed, 
varnish must be liquid enough to 
worked easily, for this style of bronzi b 
is only applicable to brass. 

Green Bronze on Iron.—^ 1 ^ 19 
silver, 1 part; essence of laV f IU ;i v cr in 
parts. Dissolve the ahietate ot ju 
the essence of lavender. After , 
cles have been well pickled appy 
abietate-of -silver solution with a 



of 



the 

r brusk; 



next place the objects m a 



stove an 



diet 



the temperature attain about 1 J 
Blue Bronze.— Blue bronze is 



0° c 
pro" 



BRONZING 



139 



j bv the wet process by, coloring 
Ironze (silver composition) with 
w ^'- e i hie A blue-bronze color can be 
ftnii i a< L-d in the ordinary way from white- 
rfe color, the product of pure Eng- 
& r ° a nd with an alum solution con- 
lish tin, < ^ ts of alum in 4j 500 parts 

sis* 1 ^ " foiled for 5 hours and washed 
of nd dried. The bronze prepared 
f&s manner is placed in a porcelain 
'jU niived with a solution of 15 parts of 
d lf!ine blue in 1,500 parts of alcohol 
*Z? lv r the bronze powder and liquid 
S tie alcohol has evaporated entire- 
ly and the bronze color becomes dry. 
this manipulation must be repeated 6 
$ 8 times, until the desired blue shade 
breached. When the bronze is dark 
Miouffh it is washed out in warm water 
and before entirely dry 1 tablespoonful 
of petroleum is poured on % pounds of 
bronze, which is intimately mixed and> 
spread out into a thin layer, exposed to 
the air, whereby the smell is caused to 
disappear in a few days. 

Bronzing with Soluble Glass. — To 
bronze wood, porcelain, glass, and metal 
by means of a water-glass solution, coat 
the article with potash water- glass of 
30° Be. and sprinkle on the respective 
bronze powder. 

Brown Oxidation on Bronze. — Genu- 
ine bronze can be beautifully oxidized by 
painting it with a solution of 4 parts of 
sal ammoniac and 1 part of oxalium 
(oxalate of potash) in 200 parts of vine- 
gar, allowing it to dry, and repeating the 
operation several times. These articles, 
protected against rain, soon lose the un- 
pleasant glaring metallic luster and as- 
sume instead a soft brown tint, which 
bronze articles otherwise acquire only 
after several years' exposure to the at- 
mosphere. A beautiful bronze color 
w nicb, will remain unaffected by heat 
be imparted to bronze articles by the 
iollowing process: The object is first 
washed in a solution of 1 part of crystal- 
lized verdigris and 2 parts of sal ammo- 
niac in 260 parts of water, and then dried 
before an open fire till the green color 
e gins to disappear. The operation is 
repeated 10 to 20 times, but with a solu- 
ttai } part of verdi gris crystals and 2 
of sal ammoniac in 6Q0 parts of 
wat er . The color of the article, olive 
tkTl at .? rst > gradually turns to brown, 
p*^ C T IU r emain unaltered even when 
"Posed to strong heat. 

SRONZE POWDERS: 
.^e also Plating for general methods 
bronzing, and Varnishes. 



Gold and Silver Bronze Powders 
Genuine gold bronze is produced ?™ 
the waste and parings offid in £33 
beating. The parings, etc., are ground 
with honey or a gum solution, Son a 
glass plate or under hard granite stone* 
into a very fine powder, which is S 
peatedly washed out with water and 
dried. There are various shades of sold 
bronze, viz., red, reddish, deep yellow 
pale yellow, as well as greenish. These 
tints are caused by the various percent- 
ages of gold or the various mixtures of 
the gold with silver and copper. 

By the use of various salt solutions or 
acidulated substances other shades can 
be imparted to bronze. In water con- 
taining sulphuric acid, nitric acid, or 
hydrochloric acid, it turns a bright yel- 
low; by treatment with a solution of crys- 
tallized verdigris or blue vitriol in watei 
it assumes more of a reddish hue; other 
tints are obtained with the aid of cooking 
salt, tartar, green vitriol, or saltpeter in 
water. 

Gold bronze is also obtained by dis- 
solving gold in aqua rcgia and mixing 
with a solution of green vitriol in water 
whereupon the gold falls down as a me- 
tallic powder which may be treated ir, 
different ways. The green vitriol, how- 
ever, must be dissolved in boiling water 
and mixed in a glass, drop by drop, witl 
sulphuric acid and stirred until the basi 
iron sulphate separating in flakes has re 
dissolved. Another way of producing 
gold bronze is by dissolving gold m aqua 
regia and evaporating the solution in a 
porcelain dish. When it is almost dry 
add a little pure hydrochloric acid and 
repeat this to drive out all the free chlo- 
rine and to produce a pure nydrochlorak 
of eold The gold salt is dissolved it. 
d isSled water, faking* Htjj - ; P«^ 
(3* grams fine gold); into this solu ion 
drop while stirring by means of a . $ ass 
rod? an 8° solution (by Beaume) of an 
timony chloride as long. 33 ^bronze, 
forms. This deposit is gold gr 
which, dried -"er rernova lot aU 1 £ ^ 
is chiefly employed in W^ g dec0 ration. 
ing. and for china and g as * ^ 
Tvletallic gold powder ^ d alloyed 
obtained by dlsSO f V1 ^J precipitating it 
gold in aqua regm and P rec P tal slich 

Sgain by •? «^g£Pg Seed in the M 
as iron or zinc, whicn h ld s 

uid in the form °f/?™' ebv . The rods 
completely ^pa-rated hereby ^ 

roust be perfectly clean ]d ^ bronBe 

™„ the proporlionf ofthe gold 
depends upon the P™P the brilliancy 
In'order to further in^rcas ^ j 

the dried substance may 



140 



BRTTS1 



Mosaic Gold.— Mosaic gold, generally 
a Sound of tin. 64.63 parts, and sul- 
Shur 35.37 parts, is odorless and taste- 
Jew and dissolves only in chlorine solu- 
tion, aqua regia, and toil ng potash lye. 
It is employed principally for bronz- 
ing plaster-of-Parls figures, copper, and 
brLs, by mixing it with 6 parts of bone 
ashes robbing ft on wet, or applying it 
with varnish or white of egg in the prep- 
aration of gold paper or for gi ding 
cardboard and wood. Mosaic gold of 
eolden-yellow color is produced by hcat- 
ine 6 parts of sulphur and 16 parts of 
tin amalgam with equal parts of mer- 
cury and 4 parts of sulphur; 8 parts ol 
precipitate from stannic muriate (stannic 
acid) and 4 parts of sulphur also give a 
handsome mosaic gold. 

The handsomest, purest, and most 
gold-like mosaic gold is obtained by 
melting 12 parts of pure tin, free from 
lead, and mixing with C parts of mercury 
to an amalgam. This is mixed with 7 
parts of flowers of sulphur and 6 parts of 
sal ammoniac, whereupon the mass is 
subjected for several hours to a heat 
which at first does not attain redness, 
but eventually when no more fumes are 
generated is increased to dark -red heat. 
This operation is conducted either in a 
glass retort or in an earthenware cru- 
cible. The sal ammoniac escapes first 
on heating, next vermilion sublimates 
and some stannic chloride, while the 
mosaic gold remains on the bottom, the 
upper layer, consisting of lustrous, 
golden, delicately translucent leaflets, 
being the handsomest mosaic gold. 

Genuine Silver Bronze,— This is ob- 
tained by the finely ground waste from 
beating leaf silver or by dissolving silver 
in aqua fortis. This solution is then 
diluted with water and brightly scoured 
copper plates are put in, whereby the 
silver precipitates as a metallic powder. 

Imitation Silver Bronze. — This is ob- 
tained through the waste in beating imi- 
tation leaf silver, which, finely ground, 
is then washed and dried. In order to 
increase the luster it is ground again in a 
dry condition. 

Mosaic Silver. — Mosaic silver is an 
amalgam of equal parts of mercury, bis- 
muth, and tin. One may also melt 50 
parts of good tin in a crucible, and as 
soon as it becomes liquid add 50 parts 
of bismuth, stirring all with an iron wire 
until the bismuth is fused as well. As 
soon as this occurs the crucible must be 
removed from the fire; then stir m, as 
long as the contents arc still liquid, 25 
parts of mercury and mix the whole mass 



evenly until it can be gTound on n c t„ 
Slab. Stone 

BRUSHLESS SHAVING CREAM: 

A — Stearic acid io p oun ds 

Liquid petrolatum, 

white 4, pints 

Lanolin, anhydrous . . 2 pounds 
B — Trietbanolamine .... 1 pound 

Borax 1 pound 

Water 15 gallons 

Perfume to suit. 

Prepare A by heating stearic acid to- 
gether with the petrolatum and lanolin to 
70° C. In a separate container heat B 
to boiling and add to it A stirring slowly 
until cold. 



BRUNETTE POWDER: 
See Cosmetics. 



Brushes 

HOW TO TAKE CARE OF PAINT 
AND VARNISH BRUSHES. 

It is a good plan to fill the varnish brush 
before putting it in the keeper. 

Whitewash or kalsomine brushes 
should not be put into newly slaked 
lime or hot kalsomine. 

Cement-set brushes should never be 
put in any alcohol mixture, such as shel- 
lacs and spirit stains. 

Varnish brushes should be selected 
with a view to their possessing the follow- 
ing qualities: 1st, excellence of mate- 
rial; 2d, excellence of make, which 
includes fullness of hair or bristles and 
permanency of binding; 3d, bfe ana 
spring, or elasticity sufficient to enable 
the varnish er to spread the varnish with- 
out reducing it with turpentine; a»| 
4th, springing, when in use, to a tru 
chisel edge. 

Temperature for Brushes. —The bris- 
tles of every brush are held in P^ c f 
the handle. It passes through the siiai 
of the brush and is kiln-dried to 
perfectly. If it shrinks, however, '» 
outward tension is lost and the brisii 
loosened. For this reason tne ^ 
principle in brush care is to , .^ P j n a 
tool, when it is new or not soaKing, 
cool place, out of hot rooms, » n 4jjj|. 
temperature that would tend to 
the wood of the handle. 

Cleaning Paint Brushes. -™> int 
brush should be dipped J n £ e jng 
and put to work without nisi 



i 



BRUSHES — BUNIONS 



141 



working it with a brisk 

laet*^—. . baC k and forth through the 
pioveuieu ^ dugt and loose halrs 

^ helaken out A paint brush, when 
V 11 thoroughly dry cleaned, 
teeK watei for a few * 
P Ia Enough to soak or swell 
fej wetthrough, and then 



^iSoughly dry cleaned, should be 
thus ttiorou^ ^ j ^ minutes> not 

" it, but only 

- » wet tnruu^, ™ swung and 

until wej j t {s then rea dy to dip m 
shaken u j. * of the ^ airs 

th %^i l be loose, lost of them will 
Tme out in the first few minutes work- 
fug and can he easily picked from the 
surface. 

Cleaning Varnish Brushes.— Varnish 
KrS Snd brushes used in varnish 
f hu^V paint, and all color in yar- 
gh* wS» different handling than 
& brushes. They should be more 
thoroughly dry cleaned, m order that 
bose hairs may be worked out 
After working them through the hand it 
| a good thing to pass the brush back 
and forth over a sheet of sandpaper. 
This rough surface will pull out the loose 
bristles and smooth down the rough 
ends of the chisel point. The brush 
should then be washed by worong it tor 
a few minutes in clean turpentine and 
swinging it dry. It should never be put 
in water. For carriage work and fine 
varnishing the brush should be broken 
in on the rubbing coat in order to work 
out all the dust particles before it is used 
on the finishing coats. 



Setting the Paint -Brush Bristles. — 

For the first 3 or 3 days new brushes 
require special care while at rest. They 
should be dipped in raw oil or the 
paint itself and smoothed out carefully, 
then kid on their sides over night. The 
chisel-pointed brushes should be set at 
an incline, the handle supported just 
enough to allow the brush to lie along 
the point. This is done to prevent twist- 
tog of the bristles, and to keep the shape 
°f the brush. It is necessary to do 
this only a or 3 times before the shape 
becomes set. 

Paint Brushes at Rest, — An impor- 
tant principle in brush care is never to 
•eavc the brush on end while at rest, 
kven f or temporary rest during a job 
brush should never stand on end. 
g* Mght it should always be placed in a 
b fush-keeper"— a water-tight box, or a 
Paint keg, with nails driven through the 
siaes on which the brushes can be sus- 
ffd in water. Holes are bored m 
handles so the brush will hang free 
J? th e bottom, but with the bristles en- 
"rely llt „w water. Before placing 



them in water the brushes should be 
mped so as not to be too full of paint, 
but not cleaned. 1 ' 

Varnish Brushes at Rest—Varnish 
brushes should be kept at rest in tur- 
pentine and varnish, or better, in some 
of the varnish that the brush is used for 
They should preferably not be kept in 
turpentine, as that makes the brush 
" lousy" — roughening the bristles. 

Washing Brushes. — All brushes should 
be washed in benzine or turpentine and 
shaken dry —not whipped — when it is 
desired to change from one color to an- 
other, or from one varnish to another. 

To Restore Brushes. — A good remedj 
to restore lettering brushes which have 
lost their elasticity and do not keep 
point, is as follows: 

Put the pencil in oil and brush it sev- 
eral times over a hot iron in such a mar 
ner that the hairs touch the iron froi 
each side; then dip the pencil quickly ii 
cold water. 

A Removable Binding.— The brist 
bunch of brushes is bound with rope sc 
as to keep them together for use. In- 
stead of the twine, a covering of ruboei 
may be employed, which is easily sbppec 
over the bristles and can be convenient^ 
removed again. The cleaning of tt 
brush is much facilitated thereby, anc 
the breadth of the stripe to be drawi 
with the brush can be accurately regu- 
lated, according to how far the covering 
is slipped over the brush. 

See also Cleaning Preparations a* 
Methods. 



BUBBLES IN GELATIN : 

See Gelatin. 
BUBBLE (SOAP) LIQUID I 
See Soap Bubble Liquid. 

BUBBLES. 

Bubbles of air often adhere to mold 
immersed in depositing s °^% S ' S *- m \ 
m ay be preven ted by P^^^J 
the ob ect into ?P ir ^ /^Vush, or b; 
moved by the ^^^{Sti^^ 
directing a L curren z ? 

against them by »« nB w £ h a long an* 
india-rubber bhadder. w ^ ^ 

curved glass i^j£fg m S ediment. 
liquid should be tree ir 

BURN REMEDY: ^ 

Carron OiL— ««" J£ a _ r shake thoi 

Wat fr/ n ThTfor» S a stable en.ulsi. 

fear of injury. 



143 



BURNS — BU r 



*l?e N flso Ointments and Turpentine. 
Mixture for Burns. — I.— A mixture of 
oil with the white of egg is recom- 
Sded for burns. The eggs are broken 
to a bowl and the castor oil slowly 
poured in while the eggs are beaten. 
Egh oil is added to make a thick 
creamy paste, which is applied to the 
burn- The applications are repeated 
often enough to prevent their becoming 
d r y or sticky. Leave the surface un- 

covered. , 

II —Put 27 parts, by measure, ot 
menthol into 44 parts, by measure, ot 
witch hazel (distillate) and apply freely. 
A good plan is to bandage the parts and 
wet the wrappings with this mixture. 

HI.— A very efficacious remedy tor 
burns is a solution of cooking salt in 
water. It is best to immerse fingers, 
hands, and arms in the solution, which 
must be tolerably strong. For burns in 
the face and other parts of the body, 
salt water poultices are applied. 



Butter 

(See also Foods.) 

Butter Color, — Orlean, SO parts, by 
weight; curcuma root (turmeric), 80 
parts, by weight; olive oil, 240 parts, by 
weight; saffron, 1 part, by weight; alco- 
hol, 5 parts, by weight. The orlean and 
turmeric are macerated with olive oil and 
expressed. The weight of the filtered 
liquid is made up again to 240 parts, by 
weight, with olive oil, next the filtered 
saffron-alcohol extract is added, and the 
alcohol is expelled again by heating the 
mixture. 

Artificial Butter. — I.— Carefully 
washed beef suet furnishes a basis for 
the manufactures of an edible substitute 
for natural butter. The thoroughly 
washed and finely chopped suet is ren- 
dered in a steam-heated tank; 1,000 
parts of fat, 300 parts of water, 1 part of 
potassium carbonate, and 2 stomachs of 
pigs or sheep, are taken. The temper- 
ature of the mixture is raised to 113° ff 
Alter 2 hours, under the influence of the 
arT^L'") f st »ma<?hs, the membranes 

Sea to K Cd / nd th< T fat is melted and 
fE^-r he ot the fixture. After 

s drawn nS° f t a ^ Salt the melted 

the Srir,; °| d t0 , C001 30 as to allow 
and S t h e a n ri " e rp , a ^ -P a ' mJ tin to separate, 

press 'Vorwl 111 .^^ " * M r ^lic 



of fluid oleopalmitin (so-called " l 
margarine*') is pressed out Th P ° i 
oil" is then mixed with 10 p er cent t ■ 
weight of milk and a little butW , 3 
and churned. The product i s u ° r 
worked, salted, and constituted ft 



"oleomargarine/' or 



butter substil t 
Leaf lard can be worked in thesam 
beef suet and will yield an olimf 
ltin suitable for churning nr. 



as 
mi 

butter substitute. s 11110 * 

H.— Fat from freshly slaughtered cattle 
after thorough washing is placed in clean 
water and surrounded with ice, where it 
is allowed to remain until all animal heat 
has been removed. It is then cut into 
small pieces by machinery and cooked at 
a temperature of about 150° F. (65.(3° C ) 
until the fat in liquid form has separated 
from the tissue, then settled until it i s 
perfectly dear. Then it is drawn into 
the graining vats and allowed to stand 
for a day, when it is ready for the presses. 
The pressing extracts the stearine, leav- 
ing a product commercially known as 
oleo oil which, when churned with cream 
or milk, or both, and with usually a pro- 
portion of creamery butter, the whole 
being properly salted, gives the new food 
product, oleomargarine. 

III. — In making butterine use neutral 
lard, which is made from selected leaf 
lard in a very similar manner to oleo oil, 
excepting that no stearine is extracted. 
This neutral lard is cured in salt brine 
for from 48 to 70 hours at an ice- water 
temperature. It is then taken and, with 
the desired proportion of oleo oil and fine 
butter, is churned with cream and milk, 
producing an article which when proper- 
ly salted and packed is ready for the 
market. In both cases coloring matter 
is used, which is the same as that used Dy 
dairymen to color their butter. At cer- 
tain seasons of the year— viz., in coi 
weather, a small quantity of sesame = on 
or salad oil made from cottonseed loUW 
used to soften the texture of the product 

IV. -"Ankara" is a substance wh*| 
in general appearance resembles « s_ { 
artfcle of butter, being rather fir 
ordinary temperatures than tow of 
stance, approaching the 

cocoa butter. It is quite odorlew,^ ^ 
taste it resembles that of a lair a ■ 
butter and. what is more, its u ^ ^ 

"* sort of spu-: 



under heat is very Similar 



ter— it browns and forms a sorL - t / 0 f a 
like that of fat. Ankara cons ^ ,„ 
base of cocoa butter, "rrvin- ^ ^ 
per cent of milk, colored wit i tbe 0IJB 
While not derived froinmUK,^ 1 a &ipg i s 
hand, nor does 



vegetable or animal fat on 



I 




BUTTER— CAFE PARFAIT 



143 



v be considered as belonging to 

t fforv of the mar g armes - An - 
m c . a htiined in the market in the form 
k 1 ^/ 3 or tablets of 2 pounds in -weight, 
of c ?% res h butter, 150 parts, by weight; 

V 'T fat SO parts, by weight; sun- 
aJllDia J\ 40 parts, by weight; cocoa nut 



100 parts, by 
animal fat, 100 parts, by weight; 



M^Fresh butter, 
weight; a _"^j"g5 "parts, tv weight; cocoa- 



aB fon ff SpBrta ( by weight 
^iff— Fresh butter, JO parts, by 
JsM; animal fat, ISO parts. By weight; 
Sower oil 80 parts, by weight; cocoa- 
I f oil 20 parts, by weight _ > 

r t ii seen that these three varieties 
rontain respectively 50, 33, and about 16 
Zr cent of cow's butter. 1 he appear- 
ance of the mixture is nearly perfect. 

Formulas V to VII are for a Russian arti- 
ficial butter called " Perepusk." 

To Impart the Aroma and Taste of 
Natural Butter to Margarine.— In order 
to give margarine the aroma and flavor of 
cow butter, add to it a fatty acid product, 
which is obtained by saponification of 
butter, decomposition of the soap, and 
distillation in the vacuum at about 140° 
F. The addition of the product is made 
upon em ul si fi cation of the fats with milk. 
The margarine will keep for months. 

Harmless Butter Color. — Alum, pul- 
verized finely, 30 parts; extract of tur- 
meric, 1 part. With the extract damp- 
en the powder as evenly as possible, then 
spread out and dry over some hot sur- 
face. When dry, again pulverize thor- 
oughly. Protect the product from the 
hgbt. As much of the powder as will 
P on the point of a penknife is added 
to a churnful of milk, or cream, before 
burning, and it gives a beautiful golden 
co or, entirely harmless. To make the 
extract of turmeric add 1 part of pow- 
fered turmeric to 5 parts of alcohol, and 

■ derate together for fully a week. 
«J ° Sweeten Rancid Butter. — I . — Wash 

Z T l tte \ first with fresh milk and after* 

in* « At sprin § water > carefully work- 
\ the residllal water , 

id? V dd 25 to 3 0 drops of lime chlor- 
mai ,r?v y 2 P^nds of butter, work the 
of fr«i? tho , rou ghly, then wash in plenty 
*esidual'- wate r» and work out the 



al oW T Ir -fJ elt t,le butter in a water bath, 
^arccTl S0Bae fr eshly burned animal 
lull v foaraely powdered and eare- 
hi to free « from dust. After 
Minute, '^^"ed in contact for a few 
h dean « butt er is strained through 
n fl ariael. If the rancid odor k 



not 

proc 



completely removed> Complete ^ 

oleo oil, 5 parts; n^tSl * *J 

butter, 1 part; is mixed t t h 
"batter," 4 parts, with th< th alWn ™"° 
part of salt 



as a 



minous 
e addition of 1 
- preservative. If thp 
albuminous constituent be composed of 
the whites and yolks of eggs beaten tot 
foam the product will h a ye the con&£ 
ency and color of butter. The molten 
fats are added to the egg batter and the 
whole is stirred at a temperature suffi- 
cient to produce coagulation of the albu- 
men (150-200° P.). The mass is then 
cooled gradually with continuous stir 
ring, and the salt is Worked in. 

Olive-Oil Paste.— If an ounce of peele. 
garlic be rubbed up into a pulp, in s. 
clean Wedgwood mortar, and to this b 
added from 3 to 4 ounces of good oliv 
oil, with constant rubbing up with the 
pestle, the oil becomes converted into 
pasty mass, like butter. It is possibl 
that the mucilage obtainable from othei 
bulbs of the Litium tribe would prove 
equally efficient in conferring^ semi- 
solidity on the oil, without imparting any 
strong smell. The above composition is 
largely used by the Spanish peasantry 
instead of butter, which runs liquid i 
the Spanish summer. It is known 
"aleoli." The more easily solidifie 
portion of olive oil is stearine, and thi 
may be cheaply prepared from mutto 
fat If added, in certain proportions, t 
olive oil, it would certainly raise its melt 
ing point. 

BUTTERMILK, ARTIFICIAL, 

Buttermilk powder, 10 parts 
1 part; S yrup of buckthorn V part 



Buttermilk powder 10 parts; vinegar, 
, part- syrup of buckthorn, 1 part. Uis 
sX Vpo'wder in the water ■*« U- 
the vinegar and syrup. ™^ lo ride 
prepared as follows: Sodium £™ 
50 parts; milk sugar 100 parts. P 
„:„™ nitrate. 5 parts; alum, o 



TESTS FOR 



snim nitrate, 5 parts 
Mix. 

BUTTER, ARTIFICIAL: 

See Foods. 
BUTTER COLORANT: 

See Foods. 
BUTTONS OF ARTIFICIAL AGATE ■ 

See Agate. 
CADMIUM ALLOYS: 
See Alloys. 



144 



CALAMUS CORDIAL— CAMPHOR 



of Calcium 



CALCIUM CARBIDE: 

CaSTlcaTcium LbfS. is readily at- 
£3Sby the air and the : mondm , con- 
tn?npd in the generators and consequent 
Wdecomposel during the .tonne , -ith 
formation of acetylene gas. Aside from 
the loss, this decomposition is also at- 
tended with dangers. One of the oldest 
Sods of preservation is the "tuition 
of the carbide with petroleum. In using 
such carbide a layer of petroleum forms 
on the surface of the water in the gener- 
ator, which prevents the water from 
evaporating, thus limiting the subse- 
quent generation of acetylene from the 
remaining carbide. Instead of petro- 
leum many other substances have been 
proposed which answer the purpose 
equally well, e. g., toluol, oils, solid bodies, 
which previously have to be liquefied, 
such as stearine, paraffine, rosm, etc. 

Of a different nature is a medium of- 
fered by Letang of Paris._ He em- 

Eloys sugar or saccharine bodies to which 
e adds, if necessary, a little petroleum, 
turpentine, vaseline, or varnish of any 
kind, as well as chalk, limestone, talc, 
sulphur, or sand. The carbide is coated 
with this mixture. The saccharine sub- 
stances dissolve in the generating water, 
and also have a dissolving action on the 
slaked lime, which is formed by the de- 
composition of the carbide which admits 
of its easy removal. 

According to another process carbide 
is put on the market in such a shape 
that, without weighing, merely by count- 
ing or measuring one is in a position to 
use equivalent quantities for every charge. 
Gearing casts molten carbide in the 
shape of bars, and pours a layer of gela- 
tin, glue, and water soluble varnish 
over the carbide bars. Others make 
shells containing a certain quantity of 
reduced carbide. For this ordinary and 
varnished pasteboard, wax paper, tin- 
foil, thin sheet zinc, and similar sub- 
stances may be used which ward off 
atmospheric moisture, thus protecting 
the carbide from premature decompo- 
sition. Before use, the cartridge-like 
shell is pierced or cut open, so that the 
water can get at the contents. The 
more or less reduced carbide is filled in 
the shell, either without any admixture 
or united into a compact mass by a bind- 
ing agent, such as colophony, pitch, tar, 
sand, etc. 

Deodorization of Calcium Carbide.— 
Calcium carbide is known to possess a 



very unpleasant odor because it 
stantly develops small quantities of " 
pure acetylene in contact with th P 
ture of the air. Le Roy, 0 f B*<£ 
proposes for portable— especially W 
cle — lamps, in winch the evil is m 
noticeable than in large plants, simnlvin 
pour some petroleum over the carbid 
and to pour off the remainder not ab- 
sorbed. The petroleum, to which it fa 
well to add some nitro-benzol ( m i r ! 
bane essence), prevents the access of air 
to the carbide, but permits a very satis- 
factory generation of gas on admission of 
water. 

CALLOUS SPOTS ON FEET: 

To remove. — Soak feet for half an hour 
morning and night in a gallon of water 
in which has been dissolved a handful 
of sal soda. 

CAMPHOR PREPARATIONS: 

Fragrant Naphthalene Camphor.— 
Naphthalene white, 

in scales 3,000 parts 

Camphor 1,000 parts 

Melt on the steam bath and add to the 
hot mass: 

Coumarin. 2 parts 

Mirbane oil 10 parts 

Cast in plates or compressed tablets. 
The preparation is employed as a moth 
preventive. 

Powdered Camphor in Permanent 
Form. — I. — Powder the camphor in the 
usual manner, with the addition of a 
little alcohol. When it is nearly reduced 
to the proper degree of fineness add a 
few drops of fluid petrolatum and imme- 
diately triturate again. In tins manner 
a powder as fine as flour is Stained 
which does not cake together. 
powdered camphor may be used tor an 
purposes except for solution in aI «*T 
as it will impart to the latter a faint opai 
escence, owing to the insolubility oi 
petrolatum. atrn „ c ether 

and 
powd 

that ix omv taxes uuc-u«h -- , 
required when alcohol alone is use ' ; ' ckIy , 
that the camphor dries more q ,j te 
Before sifting add 1 per cent oi ^ 
vaseline and 5 per cent of sugar j fj 
Triturate fairly dry, spread oul h a 
say 15 minutes, then pass ™' tu bby 
moderately fine wire sieve, usin^, it 
shaving brush to assist m worW „ 
through. 




CAMPHOR— CANDLES 



145 



^phor Pomade- 

f hitter almonds. 1 drachm 

8 doves M d«p. 

UJJ , 1* ounces 

c ^nphol..-.- 4 - ounces 

Wpr^d. 1 Pound 

if it the wax and lard together, then 
j5 the camphor in saturated solution 
■ irit" P ut in tlie when nearly 
cold. 

Camphoric 6 '"^ 

t __ White wax lS par ? 

1 Benzoatedsnet...... 4S par s 

Camphor, powdered. » part3 
Essential oil, to perfume. 
Welt the wax and suet together. 
When nearly cold, add the camphor and 
perfume, mix well, and pour into molds. 

rr Oil of almond 3 6 parts 

White wax 4 parts 

Spermaceti 4 parts 

Paraffine 8 parts 

Camphor, powdered. 1 part 
Perfume, quantity sufficient. 
Dissolve the camphor in the oil by the 
aid of a gentle heat, Melt the solids to- 
gether, remove, and let cool, hut before 
the mixture begins to set add the cam- 
phorated oil and the perfume, mix, and 
pour into molds. 

III.— Stearine (stearic acid) 8 pounds 

Lard 10 pounds 

White wax 5 pounds 

Spermaceti . 5 pounds 

Melt on a water bath in an earthen or 
porcelain dish; strain into a similar ves- 
sel;add a solution of 2 ounces powdered 
boras in 1 pound of glycerine, previously 
warmed, to the melted substance when at 
the point of cooling; stir well; add cam- 
pnor, 2 pounds, powdered by means of 
alcohol, 3 ounces; stir well and pour into 
molds. 



CANVAS SHOES, TO CLEAN: 

Soap cut in small 

Pieces % ounce 

™, at « 30 ounces 

J^hol % ounce 

?? da 1 ounce 

^quid ammonia ... % ounce 
Lhalk 3 ounces 

^ARY-BIRD PASTE. 

by (>p_ fouow big i s a formula much used 
e ™ au canary-bird raisers : 
bw «et almonds, 

blanched i 6 parts 

^ naea i 32 p. 



(un- 



DIS- 



Butter, fresh 

salted) .... g 

The ingredients are forked int* 
stiff paste, which is pressed throng - 
colander or large sieve to granulate the 
mass. Some add to every 5 pound, 
10 or 15 grains of saffron and tfe yolks 
of 2 eggs. 

CANARY BIRDS AND THEIR 
n EASES : 

See Veterinary Formulas. 
CANDLES : 

Coloring Ceresine Candles for 
Christmas Tree. — For coloring thest 
candles only dye stuffs soluble in oi 
can be employed. Blue: 23-24 1 
ender blue, pale or dark, 100-120 parts 
per 5,000 parts of ceresine. Violet: 26 
fast violet R, 150 parts per 5,000 parts of 
ceresine. Silver gray: 29 silver gray, 
150 parts per 5,000 parts of ceresine. 
Yellow and orange: 30 wax yellow, me- 
dium, 200 parts per 5,000 parts of cere- 
sine; 61 old gold, 200 parts per 5,000 
parts of ceresme. Pink and red: 
27 peach-pink, or 29 chamois, about 100 
parts per 5,000 parts of ceresine. Green: 
16-17 brilliant green, 33 May green, 4] 
May green, 200-250 parts per 5,001 
parts of ceresine. The above-namec 
colors should be ground in oil and th« 
ceresine tinted with them afterwards. 

Manufacture of Composite Paraffine 
Candles.— Three parts of hydroxy- 
stearic acid are dissolved m 1 part ot 
suitable solvent (e. g.. stearic acid), am 
the solution is mixed with paraffine w £ 
to form a stock for the manufacture 
composite candles. _ 

Transparent Candles. -The following 
are two recipes given m | Gj™* n 
patent specification. The figures 

n 1^affine el Sx, 70; stearine, 35; 

petroleum, 15. stearine, 
IL-Paraffine wax 90. 

petroleum, 5. f ec 'P^„ ent than does 



recipe II. The l*v™ distent 
garjted as the , ex geme ^ ^ts. 
Wltt proper og of BvJ rnin f 

To Prevent the ^ dle * in the fol- 
Candles.— Dip tiie 
lowing mixture: ^ 
Magnesium sulphate J5 £ ftrts 

Dextrin iqq parts 

^^V.'L' dries' quickly and do. 
T v, e go ution ones i 
l! burning 



ca 



ndle. 



146 



CANDLE— CARAMELS 



Candle Coloring.— Candles are colored 
either throughout or they sometimes 
consist of a white b->dy that is covered 
with a colored layer of paraffine wax. 
According to the material from winch 
candles are made (stearine, paraffine, 
or ozokerite), the process of coloring 

varies. . . , , 

Stearine, owing to its acid character, 
dissolves the coal-tar colors much more 
readily than do the perfectly neutral par- 
affine and ozokerite waxes, lor coloring 
stearine the necessary quantity ot the 
color is added to the melted mass and 
well stirred in; if the solution ejected 
happens to be incomplete, a small addi- 
tion of alcohol will prove an effective 
remedy. It is also an advantage to dis- 
solve the colors previously m alcohol and 
add the concentrated solution to the 
melted stearine. The alcohol soon evap- 
orates, and has no injurious effect on 
the quality of the stearine. 

For a number of years there have been 
on the market so-called "fat colors,' 
formed by making concentrated solu- 
tions of the color, and also special prep- 
arations of the colore in stearine. They 
are more easily applied, and are, there- 
fore, preferred to the powdered aniline 
colors, which are apt to cause trouble by 
being accidentally distributed in soluble 
particles, where they are not wanted. 
Since paraffine and ozokerite dissolve 
comparatively little, they will not be- 
come colored, and so must be colored 
indirectly. One way is to dissolve the 
color in oleic acid or in stearine acid and 
add the solution to the wax to be col- 
ored. Turpentine may be employed for 
the same purpose. Concerning the colors 
suitable for candles, there are the cosine 
colors previously mentioned, and also 
chroline yellow, auramine, taniline blue, 
tartrazine, brilliant green, etc. The 
latter, however, bleaches so rapidly that 
it can hardly be recommended. An 
interesting phenomenon is the change 
some colors undergo in a warm tem- 
perature; for instance, some blues turn 
red at a moderate degree of heat (120° 
F.) and return to blue only when com- 
pletely cooled off; this will be noticed 
while the candle mixture is being melted 
previous to molding into candles. 



CANDY KISSES: 
5 pounds of sugar 
3 pounds of glucose 
1 quart of water 
Teaspoonful cream of tartar 
Add a pinch of salt, place in a deep 



pan, boil until a little dropped in cold 
water turns bard. Take off the fire ami 
pour on a table of marble which has been 
previously greased, and with a knife or 
spatula, turn several times or until suf- 
ficiently cool to pull on a hook. "When 
it begins to harden, take down and roll 
into strips about one inch thick and cut 
with scissors to the desired size and wran 
in waxed paper of different colors. Di£ 
ferent flavors can be made by using a 
Little cocoa, grated lemon or orange peel 
chopped, dried fruits, etc. 



CARAMEL : 

Cloudless Caramel Coloring.— L_ 
When it is perfectly understood that in 
the manufacture of caramel, sugar is to 
be deprived of the one molecule oE its 
water of constitution, it will be apparent 
that heat must not be carried on to the 
point of carbonization. Cloudy cara- 
mel is due to the fact that part of the 
sugar has been dissociated and reduced 
to carbon, which is insoluble in water. 
Hence the cloudiness. Caramel may be 
made on a small scale in the following 
manner: Place 4 or 5 ounces of granu- 
lated sugar in a shallow porcelain-lined 
evaporating dish and apply either a 
direct heat or that of an oil bath, con- 
tinuing the heat until caramelization 
takes place or until tumescence ceases 
and the mass has assumed a dark-brown 
color. Then carefully add sufficient 
water to bring the viscid mass to the 
consistence of a heavy syrup. Extreme 
care must be taken and the face and 
hands protected during the addition of 
the water, owing to the intensity ot the 
heat of the mass, and consequent sput- 
tering. 

II.— The ordinary sugar coloring 
material is made from sugar or glucose 
by heating it, while being constantly 
stirred, up to a temperature ot aJOTj 
405° F. A metal pan capable ot noiOMg 
nearly ten times as much as « e .f u |3 
used, is necessary so as to retain j 
mass in its swollen condition. &s > 
as it froths up so as nearly to till the : pg^ 
an action which occurs suddenly, _ 
must instantly be extinguished or 
moved. The finished product fl 
insoluble if more than about 16 P e 
of its weight is driven off by the neai 



re- 
e 

eat 



CARAMEL IN FOOD 

See Food. 

CARAMEL3 : 

See Confectionery. 



CARBOLIC ACID — CARPET SOAP 



147 



^RBOLIC ACID, 
perfumed Carbolic Acid.— 
r —Carbolic acid (cryst.). 1 ounce 

** Alcohol 1 ounce 

Oil bergamot. 10 minims 

Oil eucalyptus 10 minims 

Oil citronella S minims 

Tincture cudbear. .. . 10 minims 

Water, to make 10 ounces 

get aside for several days, and then 
Hlter through fuller's earth. 
TT —Carbolic acid (cryst.) 4 drachms 

Cologne water 4 drachms 

Dilute acetic acid 9 ounces 

Keep in a cool place for a few days, 
a nd filter. 

Treatment of Carbolic- Acid Burns. — 
Thoroughly wash the hands with alco- 
hol, and the burning and tingling will 
almost immediately cease. Unless em- 
ployed immediately, however, the alco- 
hol has no effect. When the time 
elapsed since the burning is too great 
for alcohol to be of value, brush the 
burns with a saturated solution of picric 
acid in water. 

Decolonization of Carbolic Acid. — To 
decolorize the acid the following simple 
method is recommended. For purify- 
ing carbolic acid which has already be- 
come quite brown-red on account of 
having been kept in a tin vessel, the re- 
ceptacle is exposed for a short time to 
a temperature of 25° C. (77° F.), thus 
causing only a part of the contents to 
melt. In this state the acid is put into 
glass funnels and left to stand for 10 to 
12 days in a room which is likewise 
kept at the above temperature. Clear 
white crystals form from the drippings, 
which remained unchanged, protected 
from air and light, while by repeating 
the same process more clear crystals are 
obtained from the solidified dark col- 
ored mother lye. In this manner 75 to 
80 per cent of clear product is obtained 
altogether. 

Disguising Odor of Carbolic Acid.— 

Any stronger smelling substance will dis- 
guise the odor of carbolic acid, to an ex- 
tent at least, but it is a difficult odor to 
disguise on account of its persistence. 
Camphor and some of the volatile oils, 
such as peppermint, cajeput, caraway, 
wve, and wmtergreen may be used. 

To Restore Reddened Carbolic Acid. 

UemoTit's method consists in melting 
^ue acid on the water bath, a dding 12 per 
l ; ft nt of alcohol of 95 per cent, letting cool 
J°w* and, after the greater part of the 
m >stance has crystallized out, decanting 



the liquid residue. The crystals ob- 
tained in this manner are snowy white 
and on being melted yield a nearly color! 
less liquid. The alcohol may be recov- 
ered by redistillation at a low tempera- 
ture. Ihis is a rather costly procedure. 

CARBOLIC SOAP: 

See Soap. 

CARBOLINEUM: 

See also Paints and Wood. 

Preparation of Carbolineum. —I. —Me.. 

together 50 parts of American rosin (F) 
and 150 parts of pale paraffine oil (yel- 
low oil), and add, with stirring, 20 parts 
of rosin oil (rectified). 

II. — Sixty parts, by weight, of black 
coal tar oil of a specific gravity higher 
than 1.10; 25 parts, by weight, of creo- 
sote oil; 25 parts, by weight, of beech- 
wood tar oil of a higher specific weight 
than 0.9. Mix together and heat to 
about 347° F., or until the fumes givei 
off begin to deposit soot. The resulting 
carbolineum is brown, and of somewhat 
thick consistency; when cool it is read 3 
for use and is packed in casks. Thi 
improved carbolineum is applied to wood 
or masonry with a brush; the surfaces 
treated dry quickly, very soon loose th« 
odor of the carbolineum, and are effec 
tively protected from dampness and foi 
mation of fungi. 

CARBON PRINTING : 

See Photography. 

CARBON PROCESS IN PHOTOGRA- 
PHY: 

See Photography. 

CARBONYLE : 

See Wood. 
CARBUNCLE REMEDIES: 

See Boil Remedy. 
CARDS (PLAYING), TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Mett 

CARDBOARD, WATERPROOF GL1 

See°Adhesives under Cements ar 
Waterproof Glues. 

CARDBOARD, WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing. 



CARMINATIVES : 
See Pain Killers. 
CARPET PRESERVATION: 

See Household Formulas. 

CARPET SOAR: 
See Soap. 



GE-TOP DRESSING: 

See Leather. 

_10N OIL: 

See Cosmetics. 

CASE HARDENING : 

See Steel. 



Casein 

Dried Casein, its Manufacture and 
Uses— For the production of. casein, 
skimmed milk or buttermilk is used, 
articles of slight value, as they cannot be 
employed for feeding hogs or for making 
cheese, except of a very inferior sort, ot 
little or no alimentive qualities. I his 
milk is heated to from 70° to 90° O. 
(175°-195° F-), and sulphuric or hydro- 
chloric acid is added until it no longer 
causes precipitation. The precipitate 
is washed to free it from residual lactose, 
redissolved in a sodium carbonate solu- 
tion, and again precipitated, this time by 
lactic acid. It is again washed, dried, 
and pulverized. It takes 8 gallons of 
skimmed milk to make 1 pound of dry 
casein. 

In the manufacture of fancy, papers, 
or papers that are made to imitate the 
appearance of various cloths, laces, 
and silks, casein is very widely used. 
It is also largely used in waterproof- 
ing tissues, for preparation of water- 
proof products, and various articles 
prepared from agglomeration of cork 
(packing boards, etc.). With lime water 
casein makes a glue that resists heat, 
steam, etc. It also enters into the manu- 
facture of the various articles made from 
artificial ivory (billiard balls, combs, 
toilet boxes, etc.), imitation of celluloid, 
meerschaum, etc., and is finding new 
uses every day. 

Casein (< as known, may act the part 
of an acid and combine with bases to 
form caseinates or caseates; among these 
compounds, caseinates of potash, of 
soda, and of ammonia are the only ones 
soluble in water; all the others are insol- 
uble and may be readily prepared by 
double decomposition, Thus, for ex- 
ample, to obtain caseinate of alumina it 
is sufficient to add to a solution of casein 
in caustic soda, a soluti on of sulphate of 
alumina; an insoluble precipitate of ca- 
sein, or caseinate of alumina, is instantlv 
tormed. 

This precipitate ought to be freed 
trom the sulphate of soda (formed by 
* JL-j Composition), by means of pro- 
Pure, ordinary cellu- 



lose may be incorporated with it hv *v 
process, producing a new compLS* 
cheaper than pure cellulose, althouA 
osscssing the same properties, and ca 



teof replacing it infills appli c TtSS & " 

According to the results desired 
transparency, color, hardness, etc 'th* 
most suitable caseinate should be sele t 
ed. Thus, if a translucent compounds 
to be obtained, the caseinate of alurnin 
yields the best. If a white compound is 
desired, the caseinate of zinc, or of map 
nesia, should be chosen; and for colored 
products the caseinates of iron, copper 
and nickel will give varied tints.' ' 
The process employed for the new prod- 
ucts, with a base of celluloid and casein- 
ate, is as follows: On one hand fascia is 
dissolved in a solution of caustic soda (100 
parts of water for 10 to 25 parts of soda), 
and this liquid is filtered to separate the 
matters not dissolved and the impurities. 
On the other hand, a salt of the base of 
, which the caseinate is desired is dis- 
solved, and the solution filtered. It is 
well not to operate on too concentrated a 
solution. Trie two solutions are mixed 
in a receptacle provided with a mechan- 
ical stirrer, in order to obtain the in- 
soluble caseinate precipitate in as finely 
divided a state as possible. This precip- 
itate should be washed thoroughly, so 
as to free it from the soda salt formed by 
double decomposition, but on account of 
its gummy or pasty state, this washing 
presents certain difficulties, and should 
be done carefully. After the washing 
the mass is freed from the greater part 
of water contained, by draining, followed 
by drying, or energetic pressing; then jt 
is wa shed in alcohol, dried or pressed 
again, and is ready to be incorporated m 
the plastic mass of the celluloid. 

For the latter immersion and washing 
it has been found that an addition ot 1 to 




)perati... 

may be conducted in a mixing apP^ 1 
tus; but, in practice, it is found prew 
able to effect it with a rolling null, opei 
ating as follows: 



introduced in 
the plastic state, and m 0 ^ 11 / 5 ^!* 

hoi 



The nitro-cellulo.^e is . , 

toistened witn J 

solution of camphor in alcohol (* 0 , to L ^i 



v UulfJ „, 

longed washing. 



parts of camphor in 50 to 70 ot 
tor 100 of nitro-ceilulose) as it is F 
tieed in celluloid factories. , : g 

This plastic mass of nitro-cejlu}°\ ^ 
placed in a rolling mill, the cyhn« fc s(iffle 
which are slightly heated a t t fle , ore; 
time as the caseinate, prepared as ^ 
then the whole mass is wor ke a ■ J tffC 
cylinders until the mixture ot 



CASTING 



149 



is P 



fpctly homogeneous, and the final 
* - sufficiently hard to be drawn out 
Jj>af s J ; n the same way as practiced 

HC?e leaves are placed in hydraulic 
1 where they are compressed, 
f e f St then cold, and the block thus 
" T a nflerwards cut into leaves of the 
t? T *Zll desired. These leaves are 
j 1 °Ja in an apparatus in the same way 
Ordinary celluloid. The product 
aS Jnbles celluloid, and has all its prop- 
fflff At 90° to 100° C (194° to m? 
V] it becomes quite plastic, and is 
Sslly molded. It may be sawed, filed, 
KSd, and carved without difficulty, 
Id takes on a superb polish It burns 
less readily than celluloid, and its com- 
bustibility diminishes in proportion as 
the percentage of caseinate increases; 
finally, the cost price is less than that of 
celluloid, and by using a large proportion 
of caseinate, products may be manu- 
factured at an extremely low cost. 

Phosphate of Casein and its Pro- 
duction.— The process is designed to 
produce a strongly acid compound of 
phosphoric acid and casein, practically 
stable and not hydroscopic, which may 
be employed as an acid ingredient in 
bakers' yeast and for other purposes. 

The phosphoric acid may be obtained 
by any convenient method; for example, 
by decomposing dicalcic or monocaleic 
phosphate with sulphuric acid. The 
commercial phosphoric acid may also be 
employed. 

The casein may be precipitated from 
the skimmed milk" by means of a suitable 
acid, and should be washed with cold 
water to remove impurities. A casein- 
ate may also be employed, such as a 
compound of casein and an alkali or 
a n alkaline earth. 

The new compound is produced in the 
lolloping way: A sufficient quantity of 
phosphoric acid is incorporated with the 
casein or a caseinate in such a way as to 
insure sufficient acidity in the resulting 
^mpound. The employment of 23 to 
Vt£ arts by weight of phosphoric acid 
*"n 75 to 77 parts of casein constitutes 

&ood proportion, 
acid' aqueous solution of phosphoric 
in ti 15 made ' an d the casein introduced 
the P ro P° rti °n of 25 to 50 per cent of 
Ittt W °^ ^ e phosphoric acid pres- 
sure]! l * mixture is then heated till the 
and ■* rm of the casein disappears, 
rt,: u u assumes 



Tb, 



a uniform fluid form. 

nyrim fixture is concentrated to a 
"he J? 9 olls istency. The remainder of 
casein or of the caseinate is added 



and mixed with the solution until it i» 
intimately incorporated and Te i * 
becomes uniform. The compound is 
dried in a current of hot air L i! 
other way that will not dLc'olorTandTt 
is ground to a fine powder. TnelntU 
mate union of the pUphoric acid and 
casein during the gradual concentra- 
tion of the nurture and during the grind- 
ing and drying, removes the hydroscopi 
property of the phosphoric acid, and 
produces a dry and stable produc 
which may be regarded as a hyperphos 
phate of casein. When it is mixed wit 
water, it swells and dissolves slowl 
When this compound is mingled with i 
equivalent of sodium bicarbonate : 
yields about 17 per cent of gas. 

CASEIN CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 

CASEIN VARNISH: 

Sec Varnishes. 

CASKS : 

To Render Shrunken Wooden Cas 
Watertight. — When a wooden receptacle 
has dried up it naturally cannot hold the 
water poured into it for the purpose of 
swelling it, and the pouring has to be 
repeated many times before the desired 
end is reached. A much quicker way is 
to stuff the receptacle full of straw or bad 
hay, laying a stone on top and then filling 
the vessel with water. Although the 
water runs off again, the moistened 
straw remains behind and greatly assists 
the swelling up of the wood. 

CASSIUS, PURPLE OF: 

See Gold. 
CASKET TRIMMINGS: 

See Castings. 
CASTS (PLASTER), PRESERVATIO 
OF: 

See Plaster. 
CASTS, REPAIRING OF BROKEN: 

See Adhesives and Lutes. 
CASTS FROM WAX MODELS: 

See Modeling. 



Casting 

_ x . «„ + _f Various Metals. — I 
Castings Out ol van ' { were 

til recent years ^ ta ,\?f patter 
mad e in sand moW > P. n f 

were used tor ™* castings are pr 
sand, the same ^ of g th e soft 

duced to-day. N®*^ brasS) coppe 
^rTonTolSfand onl, the siFv 



150 



CASTING 



like 



wire 
nd. 



* l hronzTare cast the old way, in sano. 
real bronze, arc i. t jn UO n 

Aluminum can be MJ*^ haye been 



and German silver articles, 
real 

Alu 1 1 

mo ld S especzaUj » _ ^ 

previously he ^ te t a he j nolten aluminum, 
temperature as the moite fa 

^fren~n Z e S ; which are imi- 
tations, are cast in cop^orbra,^ 



The Sterialiiaed is principally : a 
L^and an unlimited numb** castas 



can be made in the mold but it a 
bronze piece is to be produced it must be 
out of copper and the mold made m 
sand. To make, the eastings hollow 
with sand, a core is required. Ibis Mis 
the inside of the figure so that the molten 
copper runs around it, and as the core is 
made out of sand, the same can be after- 
wards washed out. If the casting is to be 
hollow and is to be cast in a metal mold, 
then the process is very simple. Ihe 
mold is filled with molten metal, and 
when the operator thinks the desired 
thickness has cooled next to the walls, he 
pours out the balance. An experienced 
man can make hollow castings in this 
way, and make the walls of any thick- 
ness. 

Casket hardware trimmings, which 
are so extensively used on coffins, es- 
pecially the handles, are nearly all cast 
out of tin and antimony, and in brass 
molds. The metal used is brittle, and 
requires strengthening at the weak por- 
tions, and this is mostly done with wood 
filling or with iron rods, which are 
seemed in the molds before the metal is 
poured in. 

Aluminum castings, which one has 
procured at the foundries, are usually 
alloyed with zinc. This has a close affin- 
ity with aluminum, and alloys readily; 
but this mixture is a detriment and 
causes much trouble afterwards. While 
this alloy assists the molder to produce 
his castings easily, on the other hand it 
will not polish well and will corrode in 
a short time. Those difficulties may be 
avoided if pure aluminum is used 

Plaster of Pads molds are the easiest 
made for pieces where only a few cast- 
ings are wanted. The only difficulty i 3 
that it requires a few days to dry the 
Plaste, thoroughly, and that is aW 
mtely necessary to use them successfully, 
only can the softer metals be run 



can 



etals be run 
.. Id and sil 
A plaster mold 



should be well smoked over a p» i 
or until well covered with a lav J lgllt » 
and the metal should be p OUrer ? • s °° l . 
cool a state as it will run. ln 



as 



To Prevent the Adhesion of 



ModeUns 



Sand to Castings.— Use a mixtnr ^ & 
finely ground coke and - graphite s ff 
though the former material is hinhl'v 
ous, possessing this quality even a N 
fine powder, and the fine pulverizer 3 
is a difficult operation, still the invent! 013 
attains its purpose of producing a « if 
solutely smooth surface. This is 
complished by mixing both substance", 
intimately and adding melted rosin 
whereupon the whole mass is exposed t' 
heat, so that the rosin decomposes in 
carbon residue filling upthe finest pores 
of the coke. The rosin, in melting; 
carries the fine graphite particles along 
into the pores. After cooling the mass 
is first, ground in edge mills, then again in 
a suitable manner and sifted. Sur- 
prising results are obtained with this 
material. It is advisable to take pro- 
portionately little graphite, as the dif- 
ferent co-efficients of expansion of the 
two substances may easily exercise a dis- 
turbing action. One-fifth of graphite,, 
in respect to the whole mass, gives the 
best recults, but it is advisable to add 
plenty of rosin. The liquid mixture 
must, before burning, possess the con- 
sistency of mortar. 

Sand Holes in Cast-Brass Work.- 
Cast-brass work, when it presents nu- 
merous and deep sand holes, should bt 
well dipped into the dipping acid before 
being polished, in order thoroughly to 
clean these objectionable cavities; and 
the polishing should be pushed to an ex- 
tent sufficient to obliterate the smaller 
sand holes, if possible, as this class w 
work looks very unsightly, when platw 
and finished, if pitted all over witu : w 
nute hollows. The larger holes Mgjj 
without considerable labor, be a bMeg 
ated; indeed, it not infrequently happ^ 
that in endeavoring to work , tn eV 
cavities they become enlarged , . * ^ 
often extend deep into the &oay ^ 
metal. An experienced ™n« of 
how far he dare go in polishing w 
this awkward character. 

Black Wash for Casting Mo * , 
Gumlac, I part; wood spir". * c0 ] 0 r. 
lampblack, in sufficient quanta w ^ 

How to Make a Plaster Cast 0 
or Medal.— The most # exact 
ance of any written or print ea praC tic<5 
is no guarantee of succe ■ 
alone can give expertness i 





CASTING 



151 



DOg itisn oi -^e moid is of the 
T& e °ned but the materials most gen- 
poos* var j { re plaster of Paris and brick 
er 'n the' proportion of 2 parts of the 
M 1 , 0 f the second, stirred in water, 
Wi ?u e addition of a Little sal ammo, 
with e begt q Ua lity of plaster for 
n ' aC * irnose is the so-called alabaster, 
ihl j SS. brick dust should be as finely 
* Dd i?red as possible. The addition of 
P w nried and very finely powdered, is 
Smme'nded. With very delicate ob- 
S ; the proportion of plaster may be 
Jf ?.i„ inrrpased. The dry material 



^Jlf be thoroughly mixed "before the 
Addition of water. . , - 

As the geometrically exact contour of 
the coin or medal is often the cause 
§ breaking of the edges, the operator 
sometimes uses wax to make the edges 
appear half round and it also allows the 
casting to be more easily removed from 
the second half of the mold. Kach half 
of the mold should be about the thickness 
.of the finger. The keys, so called, of 
every plaster casting must not be for- 
gotten. In the first casting some little 
half-spherical cavities should be scooped 
out, which will appear in the second half- 
round knobs, and which, by engaging 
vith the depressions, will ensure exact- 
ness in the finished mold. 

After the plaster has set, cut a canal 
for the flow of the molten casting mate- 
rial, then dry the mold thoroughly in 
en oven strongly heated. The halves 
are now ready to be bound together with 
a light wire. When bound heat the 
mold gradually and slowly and let the 
mouth of the canal remain underneath 
while the heating is in progress, in order 
to prevent the possible entry of dirt or 
foreign matter. The heating should be 
continued as long as there is a suspicion 
™ Temaining moisture. When finally 
assured of this fact, take out the mold, 
°pen it, and blow it out, to make sure of 
absolute cleanness. Close and bind 
and place on a dearth of fine, hot 
jwt. The mold should still be glowing 
2f u Ae . casti ng is made. The ladle 
W +V, C T tain F entv of metal, so as to 
Had rri at while the casting is being 
the e " i e P rescnc e of a little zinc m 
Finalf 1 ensures a sharp casting. 
Wert tf> ensure success, it is always 
a Ceid Provide two molds in case of 
tuetal ' j ven the most practiced 
Peci»n , rs take this precaution, es- 
dl »y when casting delicate objects. 




lie Si- ke Castin gs of Insects.— 
■i a B T A ect "~ a dead beetle, for example 
3t arranged in a natural position. 



and the feet are connected with an o™l 
nm of wax. It is then fixed in the cln 
tor of a paper or wooden box by mea rl of 
pieces of fine wire, so that it s perfectly 
free, and thicker wires are run Fr om £ 
sides of the box to the object, which 5 3£ 
sequently serve to form air channel^ 
the mold by their removal. A wooden 
stick, tapering toward the bottom ig 
placed upon the back of the insect to 
produce a runner for casting. The box 
is then filled up with a paste with 3 
parts of plaster of Paris and 1 of brick 
dust, made up with a solution of alum 
and sal ammoniac. It is also well first to 
brush the object with this paste to pre- 
vent the formation of air bubbles. Af- 
ter the mold thus formed has set, the 
object is removed from the interior by 
first reducing it to ashes. It is, there- 
fore, allowed to dry, very slowly at first, 
by leaving in the shade at a normal tem- 
perature (as in India this is much higher 
than in our zone, it will be necessary to 
place the mold in a moderately war 
place), and afterwards heating gradual!; 
to a red heat. This incinerates the ol 
ject, and melts the waxen base upo 
which it is placed. The latter escapes, 
and is burned as it does so, and the ob 
ject, reduced to fine ashes, is remove 
through the wire holes as suggest© 
above. The casting is then made in th 
ordinary manner 

Casting of Soft Metal Castings.— I.— Ij 
is often difficult to form flat back or ha 
castings out of the softer metals so th 
they will run full, owing mostly to V 
thin edges and frail connections. 1 
stead of using solid metal backs for th. 
molds it is better to use cardboard, 
heavy, smooth paper, fastened to 
wooden hoard fitted to the back of t 
other half of the mold. By th m * mean 
very thin castings may be produced that 
would be more difficult with a solid 

me i t I al ^To k obtain a full casting in brass 
molds for soft metal two jmpor ant 
points should be observed- O] ae « i 

Lve the deep ^ BM tl ^1^ hai & 
will escape, «d the other^ to Jja 

mold properly blued the mold in 
best done by dipp^JJJ f t on a m 



trades oi 
f considerable dross, 
metal throw off co« 10 espe ciallj 

which is ^^JiJSSSS. Should muc 
with tin and its compo s ition 
of this gather on tne u> P 



152 



CASTING 



moiil the drosses should all be saved, 
m n 1 meltf d down when there is enough 

five or ^: times before all the good 
metal is out. 

Fuel.— Where a good soft coal can be 
*fc a ?ow price, as in the middle West, 
m i perhaps the cheapest and easiest 
fuel io Sse; and, besides, it s°me J d - 
Tantaees over gas, which is so much useo. 
JnTJfJt. 1 soft-coal fire can be regu- 
Uted to keep the metal at an eVen tem- 
nerature and it is especially handy to 
Kep Se metal in a molten state during 
the noon hour. This refers particularly 
to the gas furnaces that are operated 
from the power plant in the shop; when 
this power shuts down during the noon 
hour the metal becomes chilled, and 
much time is lost by the remelting after 
one o'clock, or at the beginning in the 
morning. 

Molds. — I. — Brass molds for the cast- 
ing of soft metal ornaments out of bri- 
Unnia, pewter, spelter, etc., should be 
made out of brass that contains enough 
zinc to produce a light-colored brass. 
While this hard brass is more difficult 
for the mold maker to cut, the superior- 
ity over the dark red copper-colored brass 
is that it will stand more heat and 
rougher usage and thereby offset the 
extra labor of cutting the hard brass. 
The mold should be heavy enough to re- 
tain sufficient heat while the worker 
is removing a finished casting from the 
mold so that the next pouring will come 
full. If the mold is too light it cools 
more quickly, and consequently the cast- 
ings are chilled and will not run full. 
Where the molds are heavy enough they 
will admit the use of a swab and water 
after each pouring. This chills the 
casting so that it can be removed easily 
with the plyers. 

II.— Molds for the use of soft metal 
castings may be made out of soft metal. 
This is done with articles that are not 
numerous, or not often used; and may 
be looked upon as temporary. The 
molds are made in part the same as when 
of brass, and out of tin that contains as 
much hardening as possible. The hard- 
ening consists of antimony and copper, 
i-ais metal mold must be painted over 
»eTeral times with Spanish red, which 
tends to prevent the metal from melt- 

l. ♦ A metal must not be USft d too 
not, otherwise it will melt the mold. By 
little careful manipulation manv pieces 
^Tl Ca x WlUl these mol ds. 

be hl.W w ir ° n , or brass molds must 
^ blued before they can be used for 



casting purposes. This is f i n 
placing the mold face down^rT b ? 
charcoal fire, or by swabbing v£\? n , a 
phuric acid, then placing over Sul * 
flame or charcoal fire until the irfl ^ s 
perfectly oxidized. ^old jg 

IV.— A _ good substantial mold * 
small castings of soft metal is m ?A F 
brass. The expense of making the °* 
mold is considerable, however and 38 * 
that account, some manufacturers' ° n 
making their molds by electro-depashi^ 
This produces a much cheaper mo u' 
which can be made very quickly r pv' 
electro-deposited mold, however, is V e 
frail in comparison with a brass'eastin? 
and consequently must be handled verv 
carefully to keep its shape. The elec- 
tro-deposited ones are made out of cotj. 
per, and the backs filled in with a softer 
metal. The handles are secured with 
screws. 

Plaster Molds. — Castings of any metal 
can be done in a plaster mold, provided 
the mold has dried, at a moderate heat, 
for several days. Smoke the mold veil 
with a brand of rosin to insure a full 
cast. Where there are only one or two 
ornaments or figures to cast, it may be 
done in a mold made out of dental plaster. 
After the mold is made and set enoush 
so that it can be taken apart, it should be 

filaced in a warm place and left to dry 
or a day or two. When ready io use 
the inside should be well smoked over 
a gaslight; the mold should be well 
warmed and the metal must not be too 
hot. Very good castings may be ob- 
tained this way; the only objection being 
the length of time needed for a thorough 
drying of the mold. 

Temperature of Metal.— Metals for 
casting purposes should not be over- 
heated. If any of the softer metals show 
blue colors after cooling it is an lnj 
cation that the metal is too hot. xua 
mctal should be healed enough so tJWt 
can be poured, and the finished ca^g 
have a bright, clean appearance 
mold may be very warm, ^J^M 
need not be so hot for bright clean 
ings. Some of the metals will \not~ ^ 
reheating too often, as this win ca [(J 
to run sluggish. Britannia metai 
not be skimmed or stirred w ifl 
otherwise there will be too 
the dross. 

CASTING IN WAX: 

See Modeling. 

CASTINGS, TO SOFTEN I* 01 * 1 
See Iron. 





CASTOR OIL 



OIL 



CA i1°fvin£r Rancid Castor Oil.— To 
P rSd castor oil mix 100 parts of 
r [ea» r <j 5 o p ^-jth a mixture of 1 part 

»'f, id. Allow to settle for 24 
sU ' P and then carefully decant from 
k° UrS ecipi tate - Now wash with warm 
tJie ,^ r boiling for A hour; allow to settle 
7 fi hours In well closed vessels, after 
%lh time the purified oil may be taken 

0. 

How to Pour Out Castor Oil.— Any one 
ff ho has tried to pour castor oil.: from a 
Tnuare 5-gallon can, when it is full, 
Sows how difficult it is to avoid a mess. 
This however, may be avoided by hav- 
inu a hole punched in the cap which 
sc ?ews onto the can, and a tube, 2 inches 
Ion* and f of an inch in diameter, sol- 
dered on. With a wire nail a hole is 
punched in the top of the can between the 
screw cap and the edge of the can. This 
will admit air while pouring. Resting 
the can on a table, with the screw-cap 
tube to the rear, the can is carefully tilted 
forward with one hand and the shop 
bottle held in the other. In this way the 
bottle may be filled without spilling any 
of the oil and that, too, without a funnel. 
It is preferable to rest the can on a table 
when pouring from a 1- or 2-galIon 
square varnish can, when filling shop 
bottles. _ With the opening to the rear, 
the can is likewise tilted forward slowly 
so as to allow the surface of the liquid to 
become "at rest." Even mobile liquids, 
such as spirits of turpentine, may be 
Poured into shop bottl es without a fun- 
Cel - Of course, the main thing is that 



the can be lowered slowly, otherwise the 
5 p " tion m ay spurt out over the bot- 
With 5-gallon round cans it is 
Possible to fill shop bottles in the same 
manner by resting the can on a box or 

r ^ hen a f unnel is used f or non ' 
E llc )uuls, the funnel may be slightly 

C",, 7 " 111 the thumb and little finger 
C til i. neck of the Dottle ' while h °l d - 
*uddu i ■ by the neck be tween the 
of a i r> an(1 riE g fingers, to allow egress 

T astel ess Castor Oil— 

P ure castor oil., 
v^ologne spirit . . 
Uu of winter- 

green 40 minima 

JJ» oj sassafras . 20 minims 

^ ot anise 15 minims 

gaccharine 5 grains 

Pl "f * water, a sufficient quantity. 
e the castor oil in a gallon bottle. 



1 pint 

3 fluidounees 



158 

Add a pint of hot water t>r,J „v , 
orously for about tl n* d J Uk <LV(>~ 
pour the mixture 



15 
into 



minutes. TheE 

stopcock at its ba^e^andJr^lu^ 1111 . a 
ture to stand lor 12 S? alW Jhe mix. 

th 



me 011, excepting th P U??™' 1 . 1>raw off 
must be rejeS DhSv?fe^| 
oils and saccharine in the Cologne Tpiri 
and add to the washed castor oil P 

II. — Jj irst prepare an aromatic solution 
of saccharine as follows: ^mion 

Refined saccharine . . 25 parts 

Vanillin 5 parts 

Absolute alcohol. . . . 950 parts 

Oil of cinnamon go parts 

Dissolve the saccharine and vanillin 
in the alcohol, then add the cinnamon oil, 
agitate well and filter. Of this liquid add 
SO parts to 980 parts of castor oil and 
mix by agitation. Castor oil, like cod- 
liver oil, may be rendered nearly taste- 
less, it is claimed, by treating it as fol- 
lows : Into a matrass of suitable size put 
50 parts of freshly roasted coffee, ground 
as fine as possible, and 25 parts of puri- 
fied and freshly prepared bone or ivory 
black. Pour over the mass 1,000 parts 
of the oil to be deodorized and rendered 
tasteless, and mix. Cork the container 
tightly, put on a water bath, and raise 
the temperature to about 140° F. Keep 
at this heat from 15 to 20 minutes, then 
let cool down, slowly, to 90°, at which 
temperature let stand for 3 hours. 
Finally filter, and put up in small, well- 
stoppered bottles. 

III. — Vanillin 3 grains 

Garantose 4 grains 

Ol. menth. pip. ... 8 minims 

Alcoholis 3 drachms 

Ol. ricinus IS ounces 

Ol. olivre (im- 
ported), quan- 
tity sufficient. - - 

M. ft. sob 

Mix vanillin, garantose, 
pip. with alcohol and add castor oiJ and 

0ll Dos°e : ' One drachm to 2 fluidounees. 
IV —The following keeps well: 

Castor oil MP;£ 

Glycerine ^ p 

Tincture of orange g ^ 

T&re of senega 2 pa*? 
Cinnamon water 
enough to make 100 parts 

Mix and make an emulsion 
1 tablespoonful. 



1 pint 
ol. menth. 




1'"' 



154 



CASTOR OIL — CATATYPY 



be 



4 drachms 
3 drops 
3 drachms 
2 drachma 
enough to 



3 grains 

4 grains 
8 minims 
3 drachms 



guise for the taste of the oil that can 

usec1 ' „ , -i 1* ounces 

VI.— Castor oil . ■ . • • - • • * drachms 
Powdered acacia- | 

lefpermintwaier'. 4 ounces 
Triturate the sugar and acacia adding 

f ° r VII d -Thi S formula for an emulsion 
is S aid to yield a fairly satisfactory prod- 

Castor oil. 500 c.c 

Mucilage of acacia 125 c.c. 
Spirit of gaultheria 10 grams 

Sugar }S™* 

Sodium bicarbonate. 1 gram 

Wm.— Castor oil........ 1 0Ullce 

Compound tinc- 
ture of carda- 
mom 

Oil of wintergreen 

Powdered acacia. . 

Sugar 

Cinnamon water 
make 4 ounces. 
IX.— Castor oil If ounces 

Vanillin 

Saccharine ...... 

Oil of peppermint 

Alcohol 

Olive oil enough to make 1 pint. 

In any case, use only a fresh oil. 

How to Take Castor Oil. — The disgust 
for castor oil is due to the odor, not to the 
taste. If the patient grips the nostrils 
firmly before pouring out the dose, 
drinks the oil complacently, and then 
thoroughly cleanses the mouth, lips, 
larynx, etc., with water, removing the 
last vestige of the oil before removing 
the fingers, he will not get the least taste 
from the oil, which is Dland and taste- 
less. It all depends upon preventing any 
oil from entering the nose during the 
time while there is any oil present. 

Castor-Oil Chocolate Lozenges. — 
Cacao, free from oil . £50 parts 

Castor oil 250 parts 

Sugar, pulverized. . . 500 parts 

Vanillin sugar. 5 parts 

Mis the chocolate and oil and heat in 
the water, both under constant stirring. 
Have the sugar well dried and add, stir- 
ring constantly, to the molten mass. 
Continue the heat for 30 minutes, then 
pour out and divide into lozenges in the 
usual way. 



CAT DISEASES AUD THEIR 

DIES : See Insecticides aud V ^ 
nary Formulas. Ve '6ru 

CATATYPY. 

It is a well-known fact that the r 
tions of the compounds of sil Ver f c " 
inum, and chromium in photograSv 
processes are generally voluntar* 
and that the light really acts only a s 
accelerator, that is to say the chenf 1 ! 
properties of the preparations also cha2 
m the dark, though a longer time is 



re- 
are ex- 



a way that, 
ot the tune- 



„ — , „ luugci m 

qviired. When these preparations 
posed to the light under a negative the 
modification of their chemical proner 
ties is accelerated in such 
thru ugh the gradations ^ 
values in the negative, the positive print 
is formed. Now it has been found that 
we also have such accelerators in ma- 
terial substances that can be used in the 
light, the process being termed catalysis. 
It is remarkable that these substances, 
called catalyzers, apparently do not take 
part iu the process, but bring about 
merely by their presence, decomposition 
or combination of other bodies during or 
upon contact. Hence, catalysis may be 
defined, in short, as the act of changing 
or accelerating the speed of a chemical 
reaction by means of agents which ap- 
pear to remain stable. 

Professor Ostwald and Dr. O. Gros, 
of the Leipsic University, have given the 
name of £i! catatvpy" to the new copying 
process. The use of light is entirely 
done away with, except that for the sake 
of convenience the manipulations are 
executed in the light. All that is neces| 
sarv is to bring paper and negative mm 
contact, no matter whether in the liffM 
or in the dark. Hence the ne gauve J 
necessary a positive may also De 
ployed) need not even be t»ffll«g] 
for the ascending and descending a^J 
of the tone values in the P° s)t, T?^ {he 
is produced only by the q^^^der 
varying density of the sllve |.J ce n o 
contained in the negative. o« C J 
photographic (light) F^^Sact)^ 
tatypic picture (produced ! V co ^ e 
created, but the final result is ui fo|loffs: 
Catatypy is earned out i e jjega- 
Pour dioxide of hydrogen °^ e . r bout an* 
tive, which can be done tw ft 
damage to the latter, and toy * t h ft 



paper on 



(sized or unsized, , ire£ j)i 
smooth, aucording to the efleit ^ ^ 
contact lasting a fe* "^ide ° r 



th 



by a „ 

paper receives the pictuie. - _p r0 ro 
hydrogen being destroyed. be 
single application several P r g till ia 



lgl 
made. 



The acquired pictuie 




CATATYPY— CELLULOID 



155 



i —may now in the further course 
T ' s . nrocess, have a reducing or oxy- 
° f ■ action. As picture-producing 
dizmg lnree croup of iron salts are 
bodieS, J] eminenfly adapted, but other 
3 bove a ^ c i irom i urQ} ma nga- 

^bslancea, _ ^ ^ pigmentg witn g]ue 

Sobs may also be employed The 
s i ment takes place as follows: 
Sn the paper which, has been in con- 
^ct with tte negative is drawn through 
f foluuon of ferrous oxide, the protoxide 
transformed into oxide by the per- 
*:Z hence a yellow positive picture 
Sting of iron oxide, results, which 
S be readily changed into other com- 
SJmds so that the most varying tones of 
c P oTor can be obtained. . With the use of 
-crmeiits, in conjunction with 



P 1 



a glue 
In the 



Million, the action is as foil I cms 
places where the picture is, the layer with 
the pigments becomes insohibfe and all 
other aye stuffs can be washed off with 

water. • 

The chemical inks and reductions, as 
well as color pigments, of which the pic- 
tures consist, have been carefully tested 
and arc composed of such as are known 
to possess unlimited durability. 

After a short contact, simply immerse 
the picture in the respective solution, 
wash out, and a permanent picture is 
obtained. 

CATERPILLAR DESTROYERS : 

See Insecticides. 

CATGUT : 

Preparation of Catgut Sutures. — The 
catgut is stretched tightly over a glass 
plate tanned in 5 per cent watery extract 
of quebracho, washed for a short time in 
water, subjected to the action of a 4 per 
cent formalin solution for 24 to 48 hours, 
washed in running water for 24 hours, 
boiled in water for 10 to 15 minutes, 
and stored in a mixture of absolute al- 
cohol with 5 per cent glycerine and 4 per 
cent carbolic acid. In experiments on 
°gs, this suture material in aseptic 
wounds remained intact for 65 days, and 
™as absorbed after S3 days. In infected 
w °unds it was absorbed after 32 days. 

CATSTJP (ADULTERATED) : 
fe ee Foods, 

° A ? Tl f^ . Blp S AND APPLICATIONS : 

e disinfectants and Insecticides. 

FILING CLEANERS: 

6d s ee ^aaing Preparations and Meth- 
B « and also Household Formulas. 



25 parts 
25 parts 
25 parts 



CELERY COMPOUND. 

Celery (seed ground) . 
Coca leaves (ground) . 
Black haw (ground).. 
Ilyoseyamus leaves 

P $? r0 E n u ) /■ ••■ Mparts 
Podophyllum (pow- 

dered)..* 10 parts 

Orange peel (ground) 6 parts 
bugar (granulated)... 100 parts 

Mcokol J so part3 

Water, q. s. ad. ..... . 400 parts 

Mix the alcohol with 150 parts of 
water and macerate drugs for 24 hours; 
pack in percolator and pour on men- 
struum till 340 parts is obtained ; dis- 
solve sugar in it and strain. 



CELLOPHANE ADHESIVE: 

Acacia 18 parts 

Glycerine 30 parts 

Water 52 parts 

Soak the gum overnight in the water. 
Then strain and add the glycerine. 



CELLOIDIN PAPER: 

See Paper. 



Celluloid 



New Celluloid. — M. Ortmann has as 
certained that turpentine produced b 1 
the Pinna larix, generally denominate 
Venice turpentine, in combination wit 
acetone (dimethyl ketone), yields the be* 
results; but other turpentines, such a 
[he American from the ^ 
the Canada turpentine from the i*tnu 
balsamea, the /reach W^ne fro* 

naphthyl, may be employed. 

U £o put this process .njgJ^J 

parts of pyW»j e ' «g [%ttl 65 part, 
usual manner, and [mixed ™ J &m 
of terpentine or 250 Parts ct or ^ 

350 parts of ether, , col 

of mW."l^ add Md tur 
orant, such as cksired ft 
pentjne rosins derived ^ 
employed. It w k tent lt m 
phor is desired *o a cer ^ 

Ke added *° /.^iVSabout 32hour.. 
shaken and lef t a g }jot ro i lcrs , an c 
1L is then passed between ^ 

finally pressed, cut, ana 
"inary celluloid. 




CELLULOID 



The product thus obtained is ^f 11 ^ 
a™ . when camphor is not employed, 
ltd in ap£a£nc5 and properties it ean- 
distinguished from ordinary cel- 
Efoid! while C expense of production is 
considerably reduced. 

Formol Albumen for Preparation of 
Celluloid. -Formol has the proper y of 
forming combinations with most albu- 
Kid^bstanccs. Tl f se arc not iden- 
tical with reference to plasticity, and the 
use which may be derived from them for 
the manufacture of plastic substances. 
Sis difference explains why albumen 
should not be confounded with gelatin 
or casein. With this in view, the Societe 
Anonyme I'Oyonnaxienne has originated 
the following processes: 

I —The albumen may be that ot tiie 
ees or that of the blood, which are readily 
found in trade. The formohzing may 
be effected in the moist state or m the 
dry state. The dry or moist albumen 
is brought into contact with the solution 
of commercial formol diluted to 5 or 10 
per cent for an hour. Care must be 
taken to pulverize the albumen, if it is 
dry. The formol penetrates rapidly 
into the albuminoid matter, and is fil- 
tered or decanted and washed with 
water until all the formol in excess has 
completely disappeared; this it is easy to 
ascertain by means of aniline water, 
which produces a turbid white as long 
as a trace of formic aldehyde remains. 

The formol albumen is afterwards 
dried at low temperature by submitting 
it to the action of a current of dry air at 
a temperature not exceeding 107° F. 
Thus obtained, the product appears as 
a transparent corneous substance. On 
pulverizing, it becomes opaque and loses 
its transparency. It is completely in- 
soluble in water, but swells in this 
liquid. 

II. — The formol albumen is reduced 
to a perfectly homogeneous powder, and 
mixed intimately with the plastic matter 
before rolling. This cannot be con- 
sidered an adequate means for effecting 
the mixture It is necessary to introduce 
tne tormol albumen, in the course of the 
moistening, either by making an cmul- 

on with camphor alcohol, or by m£n g 
w.Ji i ■ orou g m y W1 th nitro-cellulose, or by 
Sre of g tJ lm n ltane °^ sl y a "wrouuh mix' 
SixtnL ■ rCe substan ces. When the 
Sled «, f " Jf^^ed, the paste is 
Th t S m ? J° the usual aeration, 
is varffi I ■ f0r ^ n ° albu ™n to add 
to th l ein ? diminished according 
quantity of camphor. k 

■ InStead of adding {he desiccated for- 



mol albumen it may previously v. 
swollen in water in order tn Jl f « 
more malleable. ren <ler it ! 

Instead of simple water, alkalini 
acidified water may be taken for thi ° r 
pose, or even alcoholized water ^u" 
albumen, then, should be pressed V 
tween paper or cloth, in order to re 
the excess of moisture. m oy e 

Plastic Substances of Nitro-Cellul 
Base —To manufacture plastic substanm 
the Compagme Francaise du CdliS 
commences by submitting casein to 
special operation. It is soaked with I 
solution of acetate of urea in alcohol* 
for 100 parts of casein 5 parts of acetate 
of urea and 50 parts of alcohol are em- 
ployed. The mass swells, and in 48 
hours the casein is thoroughly penetrat- 
ed. It is then ready to be incorporated 
with the camphored nitro-cellulose. The 
nitro-cellulose, having received the addi- 
tion of camphor, is soaked in the alcohol, 
and the mass is well mixed. The casein 
prepared as described is introduced into 
the mass. The whole is mixed and left 
at rest for % days. 

The plastic pulp thus obtained is 
rolled, cut, and dried like ordinary cel- 
lulose, and by the same processes and 
apparatus. The pulp may also be con- 
verted into tubes and other forms, like 
ordinary celluloid. 

It is advisable to subject the improved 
plastic pulp to a treatment with formal- 
dehyde for the purpose of rendering in- 
soluble the casein incorporated in the 
celluloid. The plastic product of nitro- 
cellulose base, thus obtained, presents 
in employment the same general proper- 
ties as ordinary celluloid. It may.M 
applied to the various manufacturing 
processes in use for the preparation « 
articles of all kinds, and its cost price 
diminishes more or less according W « 
proportion of casein associated * J "\ , 
ordinary celluloid, in this P««J c gJ 
uct various colorants nia\ 
porated, and the appearance oJ ^ 
pearl, wood, marble, or ivory o»J 
be imparted. 

Improved Ceroid. -This 
obtained by mingling with ce UUo, ^ 
der suitable conditions, g^V^t the 
glue of gelatin base I* ■ ctej id bf 
replacement of part ot tne cc 
the gelatin, of which the co« J of th e 
less, lowers materially the c ■ , (a ; ne d 
final product. The result rfth* 
without detriment to the q" a " fsUP eri<ff 
objects. These are said to be oi_ th?B 

orC . hr JZ^ mate"* 1 



properties, having p°, r *v f„„witta 
those of celluloid. And the new 



CELLULOID 



157 



jjed more readily than the celluloid 
is ^Mved alone. . 
e ^ ?new product may be prepared in 
ir or in a closed vessel under pres- 
0 pen al ,y] )C11 operated in the air, the gel- 
su. re '. g rst immersed cold (in any form, 
a*-; .' „ more or less pure) in alco- 

gSt'S? "bout 140= V with the 
• of a certain quantity (for exam- 
10 per cent) of cr3'stallizable 
id. 1" a reW hours the material 



addition 
pie.. 3 \ 

f etl ,Wlen considerably, and it is then 
introduced in alcohol of about 90 per cent, 
fnd at the same time the celluloid pulp 



fcUphor and gun cotton), taking care 
£ add a little acetone. The proportion 
of celluloid in the mixture may be 50 to 



5 per cent of the weight of the gelatin, 
more or less, according to the result 
desired. After heating the mixture 
slightly, it is worked, cold, by the rollers 
ordinarily employed for celluloid and 
other similar pastes, or by any other suit- 
able metnods. 

The preparation m a closed vessel does 
not differ from that which has been de- 
scribed, except for the introduction of 
the mixture of gelatin, celluloid, alco- 
hol, and acetone, at the moment when 
the heating is to he accomplished in an 
autoclave heated with steam, capable of 
supporting a pressure of 2 to 5 pounds, 
and furnished with a mechanical agita- 
tor. This method of proceeding abridges 
the operation considerably ; the paste 
comes from the autoclave well min- 
gled, and is then submitted to the 
action of rollers. There is but little 
work in distilling the alcohol and acetic 
a «d hi the autoclave. These may be 
recovered, and on account of their evap- 
oration the mass presents the desired 
^asistency when it reaches the rollers. 
ffUichever of the two methods of prep- 
aration may be employed, the sub- 
™ ^ay be rolled as in the ordinary 
J se ce f ss : " a boiler with agitator is made 
, °t; the mass may be produced in any 



for 



lo^!?T. ation 0f Uninflammable Cellu- 

^oodward U P + f a ?n D ° f this T P rocess . b ^ 
of sU he following: In a receiver 



an J „, ° r P° rc elain, liquefied fish glue 
alW^w ar!lblc are introduced and 
^;°_ SW ?! 1 for 24 hours in a very 

" ite 

is not covered. 



heX allowing the air to circulate 

Aiter Wa i • receiver is not covered, 
and tht ]t ls nea ted on a water bath, 
b ? WnL UOl J tenta stirTed ( for example, 
l S aurn • a P or celain spatula) until 
Nin c J s + , com Pletely liquefied. The 
77* p s 4, lhe mass should not exceed 
Alien the gelatin is added in 



bath and colza oh^S ITi the Water 
anew. When Tl e S • agltatin g 

^%iftor^Xz x tz: s complete 

Before coolin g>< the mixture is n asse d 
through a sieve in order to rSn?? +t 
Pieces which may not Lve b « n d^ 
solved. After swelling, and the dLohT 
tion awi. purification V m^Tlhl 
sieve, it i 9 allowed to rest still in the 
same position, with access of air The 
ninis formed while cooling may be re 
moved. The treatment of celluloid 
necessitates employing a solution com. 
pletely colorless and clear. The cellu- 
loid to be treated while it is still in the 
pasty state should be in a receiver of 
glass, porcelain, or similar material. 

The mass containing the fish glue is 
poured in, drop by drop, while stirring 
carefully, taking care to pour it in the 
middle of the celluloid and to increase 
the surface of contact. 

When the mixture is complete, the cel- 
luloid is ready to be employed and does 
not produce flame when exposed. 

The solution of fish glue may be pre- 
pared by allowing 200 parts of it to swell 
for 48 hours in 1,000 parts of cold dis- 
tilled water. It is then passed through 
the sieve, and the pieces which may re- 
main are broken up, in order to mingle 
them thoroughly with the water. Ten 
parts of kitchen salt are then added, and 
the whole mass passed through the 



sieve. 



This product may be utilized for the 
preparation of photographic films or for 
those used for cinematographs, or for 
replacing hard caoutchouc for the insu- 
lation of electric conductors, and for trie 
preparation of plastic objects. 

Substitute for Camphor in the Prepa- 
ration of Celluloid and Applicabl s to Other 
Purposes. -In this process commercua 
oil o P f turpentine, after being recfafied Ih^ 
distillation over caustic "^'"SjSS 
to the action of gaseous chlo ^ 
in order to produce the £0 "J h 

ing, by means of the Pres . ^ 

liquid ««« " or ^S d 
several washings .w"n , introduced 
solid matter « desiccatedaod i rf 
into an autoclave apparatus P 
resisting a press ure ot 0 a cal £ u i a ted 
Fif tv per cent <^f^ on och) 
on the weight or me , 
and mingled I with « ^rm of a tine* 
alcohol, is added in the 1 , g & 
rltr---eraf hours at the temper- 




8 



CELLULOID 



fltiire 

washed 



of 284° to 30^ 



]7, The material 



it 



for freeing 
chloride and 



is too brittle; in still others comb 



in 



.several times 
is wasneu scv cndium chloride ant 

h T tbe hXte an camphor re 

EjgSTfSJtbS operation is treated in 

the T fo!l riuidavrcon 3 tructed for the 
In an autoclave strongly 

imrPfS^fJESc^dd are introduced 
"TheUed « P « to pounds of 

and beatea rf^ T1 an dectric current is 

^vT capable of producing the de- 
apphed, capable or F The mass is 

C ° m ?°i l t v stirred either mechanically 
o rmre«by allowing a little of the 

fpoaratus, washed and dried, sub hmed 
adding to need, and is then suitable 
for replacing camphor in its industrial 
employments, for the camphene is con- 
verted entirely or in greater part into 
camphor, either right-hand camphor or 
a product optically inactive, according 
to the origin of the oil of turpentine made 

In the electrolytic oxidation of the 
camphene, instead of using acidulated 
water, whatever is capable of furnishing, 
under the influence of the electric cur- 
rent, the oxygen necessary for the reac- 
tion, such as oxygenized water, barium 
bioxide, and the permanganates, may be 
employed. 

Plastic and Elastic Composition. — 
Formaldehyde has the property, as known, 
of removing from gelatin its solu- 
bility and its fusibility, but it has also 
another property, prejudicial in certain 
applications, of rendering the composi- 
tion hard and friable. In order to 
remedy this prejudicial action M. De- 
borda adds to the gelatin treated by 
means of formaldehyde, oil of turpen- 
tine, or a mixture of oil of turpentine and 
German turpentine or Venice turpentine. 
The addition removes from the composi- 
tion its friability and hardness, imparting 
to it great softness and elasticity. The 
effect is accomplished by a slight pro- 
portion, 5 to 10 per cent. 

Production of Substances Resembling 
Celluloid.— Most of the substitutes for 
camphor in the preparation oE celluloid 
are attended with inconveniences limiting 
their employment and sometimes caus- 
ing their rejection. Thus, in one case 
the celluloid does not allow of the prepa- 
ration of transparent bodies; in another 
it occasions too much softness in the 
products manufactured; and in still an- 
other it does not allow of pressing, fold- 
ing, or other operations, because the mass 



atioas 



«duced « uiv.i m ume ai-e aftV t~j 
unfavorably by the coloring snh=t " 
employed. S ^stances 

Wallenberg has found that the haloes 
nous derivatives ot etherized oils u 
cipally oil of turpentine, and esp'eS 
the solid chloride ot turpentine, which 
of a snowy and brilliant white, and ^ 
agTeeable odor, are suitable for yieldin 
either alone or mixed with camphor S ' 
one oE its substitutes, and combined tT 
ordinary means with nitrated cellulosJ 
or other ethers of cellulose, treated with 
acetic ether, a celluloidic product, which 
it is said, is not inferior to ordinary cellu- 
loid and has the advantage oE reduced 
cost. 

Elastic Substitute for Celluloid.— 
Acetic cellulose, like nitro-eellulose, can 
be converted into an elastic corneous 
compound. The substances particu- 
larly suitable for the operation are or- 
ganic substances containing one or more 
hydroxy, aldehydic, amide, or ketonic 
groups, as well as the acid amides, Prob- 
ably a bond is formed when these com- 
binations act on the acetate of cellulose, 
but the bond cannot well be defined, 
considering the complex nature of the 
molecule of cellulose. According to the 
mode of preparation, the substances 
obtained form a hard mass, more or less 
flexible. In the soft state, copies of en- 
graved designs can be reproduced in 
their finest details. When hardened, 
they can be cut and polished. In cm 
tain respects they resemble celluloid, 
without its inflammability, and thev can 
be employed in the same manner. 1 W 
can be produced by the following metn- 
the Ledercr process: , . J 

together! part of acetate | 



ods- 

I. — Melt 
cellulose and 



phenol at.M 
the temperature of 104° to 122 1 • ^ 
a clear solution is obtained plate ^ 
mass of reaction on plates oi » . 
metal slightly heated and allow it t o 
gradually. After a rest o ae** ^ 
the mass, which at the outset is suu-£ 
to caoutchouc, is hard and ei ] u - 
plates, which can be worked Ufce 



loid 
II. 



of 



-Compress an n 



ntimatc v^ffij. 
equal parts "of acetic cellulose a ^ ^ 
drate of chloride or of aii)M e ; vtoC esd 
perature of 122° to 140° and P 
as in the previous case. e m 
In the same way a ketone m^ ftCl 
ployed, as acetophenone, 
amide, as acetamidc. i^;,q_Tike su" 

HI.— A transparent, celluloid i d „ t 
stance which is useful tor 




CELLULOID 



159 



f plates, tubes, and other articles, 
soecially as an underlay for sensitive 
fjJJ ^ n photography, is produced by 
r nlvinff 1.8 parts, by weight, of mtro- 
Ihilosein 10 pa rts ot glacial acetic acid, 
^uhpfitine and stirring and addition 
f J parts of gelatin. After this has 
plied up, add 7.5 parts, by weight, of 
Trohol (96 per cent), stirring constantly, 
The svrupv product may be pressed into 
olds" « r poured, after further dilution 
^ith the said solvents in the stated pro- 
portion, upon glass plates to form thin 
foyers. The dried articles are well 



she'd with water, which may contain a 
t™ce of soda lye, and dried again. Pho- 
tographic foundations produced in this 
manner do not change, nor attack the 
layers sensitive to light, nor do they be- 
come electric, and in developing they 
remain flat. 

j V.. — Viscose is the name of a new 
product of the class of substances like 
celluloid, pegamoid, etc., substances hav- 
ing most varied and valuable appli- 
cations. It is obtained directly from 
cellulose by mascerating this substance 
in a 1 per cent dilution of hydrochloric 
acid. The maceration is allowed to con- 
tinue for several hours, and at its close 
the liquid is decanted and the residue 
is pressed off and washed thoroughly. 
The mass (of which we will suppose 
there is 100 grams) is then treated with a 
20 per cent aqueous solution of sodium 
hydrate, which dissolves it. The solu- 
tion is allowed to stand for 3 days in a 
tightly closed vessel; 100 grams carbon 
oisulphide are then added, the vessel 
closed and allowed to stand for 12 hours 
longer, when it is ready for purification. 
Viscose thus formed is soluble in water, 
cold or tepid, and yields a solution of a 
Pale brownish color, from which it is 
P^ cl Pltated by alcohol and sodium 
cniondc, which purifies it, but at the 
expense of much of its solubility. A so- 
TOon of the precipitated article is color- 
PJ» or of a slightly pale yellow. Under 

coL ' 10 a ° f heat > "> n ? continued, vis- 
c ai , V S decoEQ posed, yielding cellulose, 
d «™c soda, and carbon disulphide. 
tute? Casein for Celluloid Substi- 

-l^ loid of Re duced Inflammability. 

incnr^ Practicable method consists in 
ViK ating silica > which does not 
Moid Vu Sential P ro Pcrties of the cel- 
Us Ua j" material is divided by the 

oi t &e ^^uods, and dissolved by means 
keen J^i 1 j s °l v ents, to which silica has 



" e «n h i j sulve "ts, to wnicn silica m 
et hsl£ ' eitherin the state of amyli., 
* 0r naethylic silicate, or in the state 



c, 



ta^'p^sjji of silicic aci * 

to the degree^Pi^iSK^^d-g 
and according to the * 7 - ty d ? si red, 
in the ether g derWveT r ^ n0 5 silica 
sufficient freedom from ^ yed L. b . ut 
for practical purpose^ 
following proportions: Fifty-five to 65 
parts m volume of the solvent of the 
celluloid, and 35 to 45 parts of the de- 
rivative of silicic acid. 

When the ether derivative is in the 
solid form such, for instance, as ethyl 
disihcate, it is brought to the liquid state 
by means of any of the solvents. The 
union of the solvent and of the derivative 
is accomplished by mixing the two 
liquids and shaking out the air as 
much as possible. The incorporation 
of this mixture with the celluloid, pre- 
viously divided or reduced to the state of 
chips, is effected by pouring the mixture 
on the chips, or inversely, shaking or stir- 
ring as free from the air as possible. The 
usual methods are employed for the des 
iccation of the mass. A good result 
is obtained by drying very slowly, pref 
erably at a temperature not above 10 c 
C. (50° F.). The resulting residue is 
new product scarcely distinguished froi 
ordinary celluloid, except that the ir 
herent "inflammability is considerably 
reduced. It is not important to emploi 
any individual silicate or derivative. f 
mixture of the silicates or derivative 
mentioned will accomplish the same 
results. 

II.— Any ignited body, is extinguishec 
in a gaseous medium which is unsuitable 
for combustion; the attempt has there- 
fore been made to find products capable 
of producing an uninflammable gas; and 
products have been selected that yieic 
chlorine, and others producing bromine; 
it is also necessary that these bodies 
should be soluble in a solvent of cellu- 
loid; therefore, among chlora ted Prod- 
ucts ferric ^^^^S^ 
is soluble in the ether-aieonui 

This is the process:. An ^f^^ 
solution of celluloid is made; ^ an 
ether-alcohol solution of ferric Pf™ aivr 
35 The twosolueions a f mjngled, anc 
a clear, syrupy, liquid oi ? d The 
yielding no precipitate is obtar n 
fiquid fs pouredmoa cup . g£j newu . 
able vessel; it is ^ of shell- 

evaporation and a s « ^tance ^ 

eol/r is P^l^e^Sd result. 
But also incombustible. 



CELLULOID 



Of bromated compounds, calcium 
hrnmide has been selected, which pro- 
ducS nearly the same result; the product 

1 fuse; 
extinguished, 

^.inrmated or brorninated proauci. 



SSSiSd ffii in the flame; outside, iUs 
finished, without the power of igni- 



.1 as the celluloid undergoes a slight 
de omposition, on exposure to the light 
allowing small quantities of camphor to 



evaporate, the surface of the ^Worin- 
ated celluloid may be fixed by immer- 
sion in albuminous water, after previous 
treatment with a solution of oxalic acid, 
if a light yellow product is desired. 

For preventing the calcium bromide 
from eventually oozing on the surface of 
the celluloid, by reason of its deliques- 
cence, it may be fixed by immersing the 
celluloid in water acidulated with sul- 
phuric acid. For industrial products, 
such as toilet articles, celluloid with fer- 
ric perchloridc may be employed. 

Another method of preparing an un- 
inflammable celluloid, based on the prin- 
ciple above mentioned, consists in mix- 
ing bromide of camphor with cotton 
powder, adding castor oil to soften the 
product, in order that it may be less 
brittle. The latter product is not in- 
combustible, but it is uninflammable, 
and its facility of preparation reduces at 
least one-half the apparatus ordinarily 
made use of in the manufacture of cellu- 
loid. The manufacture of this product 
is not at all dangerous, for the camphor 
bromide is strictly uninflammable, and 
may be melted without any danger of 
dissolving the gun cotton. 

HI. — Dissolve 25 parts of ordinary 
cclluloidin in 250 parts of acetone and 
add a solution of 50 parts of magnesium 
chloride in 150 parts of alcohol, until a 
paste results, which occurs with a pro- 
portion of about 100 parts of the former 
solution to 20 parts of the latter solution. 
This paste is carefully mixed and worked 
through, then dried, and gives an abso- 
lutely incombustible material. 

— Glass like plates which are im- 
pervious to acids, salts, and alkalies, 
flexible, odorless, and infrangible, and 
still possess a transparency similar to 
ordinary glass, are said to be obtained 
by dissolving 4 to 8 per cent of collodion 
wool (soluble pyroxylin) in I per cent of 
ether or alcohol and mixing the solution 
with S to 4 per cent of castor oil, or a 



similar n on- reunifying oil, and with 4 
6 per cent of Canada balsam. Xh 
flammability of these plates is'claitJL 1 ? 1 " 
be much less than with others of coll 
dion, and may be almost entirely obv t 
ed by admixture of magnesium chloric 
An addition of zinc white produces th" 
appearance of ivory. lQe 

Solvents for Celluloid.— Celluloid du 
solves in acetone, sulphuric ether, alco" 
hoi, oil of turpentine, benzine,' amv i 
acetate, etc., alone, or in various com 
binations of these agents. The follow" 
ing are some proportions for solution 
of celluloid: 

I.— Celluloid 5 parts 

Amyl acetate 10 parts 

Acetone 16 parts 

Sulphuric ether . ... 16 parts 

II.— -Celluloid 10 parts 

Sulphuric ether .... 30 parts 

Acetone 30 parts 

Amyl acetate 30 parts 

Camphor 3 parts 

III. — Celluloid. 5 parts 

Alcohol 50 parts 

Camphor 5 parts 

IV. -— Celluloid. S parts 

Amyl acetate 50 parts 

V. — Celluloid 5 parts 

Amyl acetate 25 parts 

Acetone 25 parts 

Softening and Cementing Celluloid.— 
If celluloid is to be warmed only suffi- 
ciently to be able to bend it, a bath in 
boiling water will answer. In steam at 
120 c C. (248° F ), however, it becomes 
so soft that it may be easily kneaded lite 
dough, so that, one may even imbed in n 
metal, wood, or any similar material, u 
it be intended to soften it to solubu ty, 
the celluloid must then be scraped^ 
and macerated in 90 per cent ataoMj 
whereupon it takes on the characce 
cement and may be used to join u i 
pieces of celluloid together. b ° im y ith 
of celluloid may be prepared: i- ft 

5 parts, by weight, of f* [[ " ] T*<£**> 
parts, by weight, each ot am)' fl ^j, 
acetone, and sulphuric ether. - gQ 
10 parts, by weight, of _ceIluloid ^ 



parts, by weight, each * by 
acetone, amy acetate, and j P b¥ 
weight, Camphor, o. v\^" * 1 vcig'» t ' 
weight, celluloid in 50 parts ^ pfl or. 
alcohol and 5 parts, by Y e 'f ' ijuloid i n 
4. With 5 parts, by weight, ce 5 
50 parts, by weight, amyl ace. # 
With 5 parts, by weight, <*" u ^ n d ^ 
parts, by weight, amyl acetate 
parts, by weight, acetone 





CEMENTS 



■ #tPti desirable to soften celluloid 

It is on e " . , l „u — u„ 

it wd 

<t it 
'.1 wi 

Celluloid. — Celluloid dishes 



u * ;i will not break when hammered 
that it w hi wa ^ r warme d to 40° C. 

SpR wfli office for this 



Mending 

Jch sho* cracks 



. are easily repaired 
b h\r\(* the surface repeatedly with 
by f'll carts, and ether, 4 parts, until 
£ mass turns soft and can be readily 



1 Til 1 S S L tl 1 w w 

the W together. The pressure must 
squeezed tc > d& fi 

be nw only 1 P^rt of ether in 3 parts <£ 
P i nhol and adding a little shellac, a ce- 
f for celluloid is obtained, which, 
fpplied warm, produces quicker results, 
ffother very useful gluing agent for cel- 
Uoid receptacles is concentrated acetic 
d The celluloid fragments dabbed 
with it stick together almost instantane- 

° U See also Adhesives for Methods of 
Mending Celluloid. 

Printing on Celluloid. — Printing on 
celluloid may be done in the usual way. 
Make ready the form so as to be perfectly 
level on the impression— that is, uniform 
to impressional touch on the face. The 
tympan should be hard. Bring up the 
form squarely, allowing for about a 3- or 
4-sheet cardboard to be withdrawn from 
the tympan when about to proceed with 
printing on the celluloid; this is to allow 
for the thickness of the sheet of celluloid. 
Use live but dry and well-seasoned roll- 
ers. Special inks of different colors are 
made for this kind of presswork; in 
black a good card-job quality will be 
found about right, if a few drops of 
copal varnish are mixed with the ink 
before beginning to print. 

Colored Celluloid.— 
. Black: First dip into pure water, then 
into a solution of nitrate of silver; let dry 
to the light. 

bellow: First immerse in a solution 
ot nitrate of lead, then in a concentrated 
solution of chromate of potash. 

irown: Dip into a solution of per- 
manganate of potash made strongly 
augune by the addition of soda. 
Hp, l i- *-*ip mto a solution of indigo 
eutrahzed by the. addition of soda. 

acic U then into an ammoniacal 
B01 ution of carmine. 

gri s reea: mto a solution of verdi- 

but?if lne colors niay also be employed 

• are less permanent, 
pleaching Celluloid.— If the celluloid 
*hiu« COme discolored throughout, its 
eness c an hardly be restored, but if 



161 



merely superficially discolored 
a woolen raw w P t t^i+u -i. i 



roolen » ^ with al? . \ Wip f Witt 
and ether l^d j * St t^ 10 ' 
This dissolves and S^g 0 * 0 *™- 



To restore 
bnskly first with a woolen cloth and fin 
ish with silk or fine chamois. A litth 
jewelers rouge or nutzpomade greatly 
Ink marks may be 



/s 
the 



a minute 
a 

polish rub 



_ J-V^V iiLUl. 

removed m the same manner. Printer's 
ink may be removed from celluloid bv' 
rubbing first with oil of turpentine and 



Process of Impregnating Fabrics with 
Celluloid.— The fabric is first saturated 
with a dilute celluloid solution of the 
consistency of olive oil, which solution 
penetrates deeply into the tissue; dry 
quickly in a heating chamber and satu- 
rate with a more concentrated celluloid 
solution, about as viscous as molasses. 
If oil be added to the celluloid solution, 
the quantity should be small in the first 
solution, e. g., 1 to 2 per cent, in the 
following ones 5 to S per cent, while the 
outer layer contains very little or no oil. 
A fabric impregnated in this manner 
possesses a very flexible surface, becaust 
the outer layer may be very thin, whil« 
the interior consists of many flexibk 
libers surrounded by celluloid. 

CELLULOID CEMENTS AXTD GLUES: 

See Adhesives. 

CELLULOID LACQUER: 

See Lacquer. 

CELLULOID PUTTY: 

See Cements. 



Cements 

(See also Putties.) 

repairing 
sives 



broken articles, see 



putty for ,Celluloid.--To tab- 
loid to wood tin, etc., use a comp ^ 
2 parts shellac, 3 £ 
phor, and 4 parts strong alconoi. 



7 , r«nent A plumbers' ce 

Plumbers' Cement. AP bkck 

ment consists ot i P rickdust , thor- 
"fbl^deVd^d dried. 

A CCra & f °p r „ffi J fiS Vrilow -Cher; 



lows: 



162 



CEMENTS 



rounds ground litharge; 4 pounds whit- 
P«„ and * pound of hemp, cut up fine- 
Sfx together thoroughly with. Unseed od 
to about the consistency of putty. 

Gutter Cement.— Stir sand and fine 
W info boiled paint skins while hot and 
thick. Use hot. 

Cement for Pipe Joints.— A good ce- 
ment for making tig'ht joints in pumps, 
Soes etc., is made of a mixture of 15 
PS'ofllaked lime, 30 parts of gr«hi£ 
and 40 parts of barium sulphate. 1 he in- 
JrtdLE are .powdered, we! mixed ^ to- 
gether, and stirred up with 15 parts at 
Boiled oil. A stiffer preparation can be 
made by increasing the proper tions of 
graphite and barium sulphate to SO and 
40 parts respectively, and omitting the 
lime. Another cement for the same 
purpose consists of 15 parts of chalk 
and 50 of graphite, ground, washed, 
mixed, and reground to fine powder. 1 o 
this mixture is added 20 parts of ground 
litharge, and the whole mixed to a stiff 
paste with about 15 parts of boiled oil. 
This last preparation possesses the ad- 
vantage of remaining plastic for a long 
time when stored in a cool place. Finally, 
a good and simple mixture for tightening 
screw connections is made from powdered 
shellac dissolved in 10 per cent ammonia. 
The mucinous mass is painted over the 
screw threads, after the latter have been 
thoroughly cleaned, and the fitting is 
screwed home. The ammonia soon 
volatilizes, leaving behind a mass which 
hardens quickly, makes a tight joint, 
and is impervious to hot and cold water. 

Protection for Cement Work.— A 
coating of soluble glass will impart to 
cement surfaces exposed to ammonia 
not only a protective covering, but also 
increased solidness. 

Cemented surfaces can be protected 
from the action of the weather by re- 
peated coats of a green vitriol solution 
consisting of 1 part of green vitriol and 
3 parts of water. Two coatings of 5 
per cent soap water are said to render 
the cement waterproof; after drving and 
rubbing with a cloth or brush, this coat- 
ing will become glossy like oil paint. 

a W" 08 * 1011 is especially recom- 
mended for sick rooms, since the walls 
can be readily cleaned by washing with 
soapy water. The coating is rendered 
^ore and more waterproof thereby. 

enrL ffr TY, vit c rio1 solution is likewise 
n ° e ™ n ? a ¥ c f °r application on old and 

wJe?™ T ngl 51 - nce h Fauces thereon 
KiSrt?? 1 coatm S s .' , p ™ old plas- 
™"« the loose particles have first to be 
removed by washing. 



Puncture Cement. — A patented r> 
ration for automatically repair^™ 
tures in bicycle tires consists of c tv U ^ c " 
holding gelatinous silica ™- „r.. yc ^ n ^ 



of glycerine are mixed with 1 volum "I 
liquid water glass, and an acid is s k7 °I 



nous suica or alum 
hydrate in suspension. Three voTu^ 1 * 1 

me of 

in: . The resulting jelly U diluted with J 
additional volumes of glycerine t 
from 4 to G ounces of this fluid are ryU i 
in each tire. In case of puncture tt, 
internal pressure of the air forces the 'fh A 
into the hole, which it closes. 



To Fix Iron in Stone.— Of the quickk 
hardening cements, lead and sulphur 
the latter is popularly employed. It can 
be rendered still more suitable for pur- 
poses of pouring by the admixture of 
Portland cement, which is stirred into 
the molten sulphur in the ratio of 1 to 3 
parts by W T eight. The strength of the 
latter is increased by this addition, since 
the formation of so coarse a crystalline 
structure as that of solidifying pure sul- 
phur is disturbed by the powder added. 

White Portland Cement.— Mix togeth- 
er feldspar, 40-100 parts, by weight; 
kaolin, 100 parts; limestone, 700 parts; 
magnesite, 20-40 parts; and sodium 
chloride, 2.5—5 parts, all as pure as 
possible, and heat to 1430° to 1500° C. 
(2606° to 2732° F.), until the whole has 
become sintered together, and forms a 
nice, white cement-like mass. 

Cement for Closing Cracks in Stoves. 
— Make a putty of reduced iron (iron 
by hydrogen) and a solution of sodium 
or potassium silicate, and force it into 
the crack. If the crack be a very nar- 
row one, make the iron and Jlicate into 
paste instead of putty. This material 
grows firmer and harder the longer trie 
mended article is used. 

Cement for Waterpipe.—X—Muj to " 
gether 11 parts, by weight, Portly 
cement; 4 parts, by weight, lead wnn > 
1 part, by weight, litharge; and niake 
a paste with Boiled oil in winch S p« 
cent of its weight of colophony nas o ■ 
dissolved. . , . u n 

II.— Mix 1 part, by weight, tJJ 
wadding; 1 part, by weight, d ^% 
and 3 parts, by weight, of boiieu ^ 
This cement must be used as so 
made. „n 

Cement for Pallet Stones.— m« ffhen 
pieces of shellac around the s to ^ & 
m position and subject it to lie * e j] s u p; 
the lac spreads unevenly or sv . ^ 
and this, in addition to being u - g cflS 
is apt to displace the stone. a , e 
be avoided as follows: ine F* 



CEMENTS 



163 



■ i n n2 sliding tongs. Take a piece 
helo in f ieat it a nd roll it into a cylm- 

oi kifween tlie fin S ers; a S aiu heat * he 
der .! v and draw it 01 



I 1 1 run u into a cylin- 

0 f shell 

fer be ^ v T ct ." n d draw it out into a fine 
eS trenin < . g tlirea j w ju break off, leav- 
thread. * ^ ^ en d 0 | t lie lac. Now 
fcg f #K tongs at a little distance from 
heat Ms testing the degree of heat by 
I rdie tongs with the shellac. 
O melts easily, lightly touch the 
sides of the notch with it; a very 
S Uver can thus be spread over them 
V n,V m llet stone can then be placed 
• D Position and held until cold enough. 
The tongs will not lose the heat sud- 
denly, so that the stone can easily be 
Sd or lowered as required, lhe pro- 
tecting particles of cement can be re- 
moved hy a brass wire filed to an angle 
and forming a scraper. To cement a 
rubv pin, or the like, one may also use 
shellac dissolved in spirit, applied m the 
consistency of syrup, and liquefied again 
by means of a hot pincette, by seizing 
the stone with it. 

DENTAL CEMENTS: 

Fairthorne's Cement. — Powdered glass, 
5 parts; powdered borax, 4 parts; silicic 
acid, 8 parts; zinc uxide, £00 parts. 
Powder very finely and mix; then tint 
with a small quantity of golden ocher or 
manganese. The compound, mixed be- 
fore use with concentrated syrupy zinc- 
chloride solution, soon becomes as hard 
as marble and constitutes a very durable 
tooth cement. 

Hue oner's Cemenr. — Zinc oxide, 500.0 
parts; powdered manganese, 1.5 parts; 
yellow ocher, powdered, 1.5-4.0 parts; 
pondered borax, 10.0 parts; powdered 
glass, 100.0 parts. 

As a binding liquid it is well to use 
acid-free zinc chloride, which can be 
prepared by dissolving pure zinc, free 
fr Qni hon, in concentrated, pure, hydro- 
caloric ac id, in such a manner that zinc 



J alw ays in excess. ,,,„,. 

<ll S ? n is - ev ° lVeQ tne zinc in excess is 
on" t^ft in the solution for some time. 
t , e lat ter is filtered and boiled down to 
^ consistency of syrup. 
Din ^' mer " al zinc oxide cannot be em- 
cai - ^ Lnou t previous treatment, be- 
b P H ^ ls to ° loose; the denser it is the 
an^ ls lX adapted for dental cements, 
the harder the latter will be. For 
d « reason it is well, in order to obtain a 
n Se product, to stir the commercial 

Wat Z t ln ° 0xide into a 3tiff P aste with 
K as I to which 2 per cent of nitric acid 

^at a? added ; the paste is dried and 
H eao ; tor s °me time at white heat in a 
lessen crucible. 

6 



H abS ° rb c -bon" S tid Thl 

den al cement prepared with such zine 
oxide turns very hard and solidifies wHh 

Phosphate Cemerit.-Concentrate pure 
phosphoric acid till semi-solid, and mix 
aluminum phosphate with it by heat- 
mg. For use, mix with zinc oxide to 
the consistency of putty. The cement 
is said to set in 2 minutes. 

Zinc Amalgam, or Dentists' Zinc.- 
This consists of pure zinc filings com- 
bined with twice their weight of mercury, 
a gentle heat being employed to render 
the union more complete. It is best ap- 
plied as soon as made. Its color is gray, 
and it is said to be effective and durahU 

Sorel's Cement. — Mix zinc oxide wit 
half its bulk of fine sand, add a solu 
tion of zinc chloride of 1.260 specifk 
gravity, and rub the whole thorough!} 
together in a mortar. The mixture 
must be applied at once, as it hardei 
very quickly. 

Metallic Cement. — Pure tin, with a 
small proportion of cadmium and suf- 
ficient mercury, forms the most lasting 
and, for all practical purposes, the leas 
objectionable amalgam. Melt 2 par 4 
of tin with 1 of cadmium, run it into n 
gots, and reduce it to filings. Form 
these into a fluid amalgam with mercury 
and squeeze out the excess of the latte 
through leather. Work up the soh| 
residue in the hand, and press itinto tfti 
tooth Or melt some beeswax m a pip 
kin, throw in 5 parts of cadmium am 
when melted add 7 or 8 parts of tm » 
small pieces. Pour the «^ met. 
into an iron or wooden boj 
them until cold so as Jooto- ^ || 
m a powder. Inis is luia w , 
3 times its weight of mercury u the P* 
of the hand, and used as above descnu 

matograph e u f^T &ss in cold water 
Soak 25 ounces isinglass in ^ ^ 
until it becomes BofMhmp fa & pfl 
^TXt^s tacky «ri 

cohoC 2 ounces of n» 
KglaThquid. Stir the result 



164 



CERAMICS 



Wvv C ement rather briskly until well 
S3 Sean well celluloid pieces to be 
Rented before using above cement. 



CHALK FOR TAILORS. 

Knead together ordinary pipe clay, 
metered with ultra marine blue for 
blue finely ground ocher for yellow, etc., 
until they aw uniformly mixed roll out 
So thin sheets, cut and press mto wood- 
en or metallic molds, well oiled t o p re 
vent sticking, and allow to dry slowly at 
ordinary temperature or at a very gentle 
teat. 



CHAPPED HANDS: 

See Cosmetics. 

CHARTA SI IT APIS : 

See Mustard Paper. 

CHARTREUSE : 

See Wines and Liquors. 



Ceramics 



OIL 



GROUND CERAMICS— LAYING 
FOR: 

See Oil. 

Notes for Potters, Glass-, and Brick- 
makers. — It is of the highest importance 
in selecting oxides, minerals, etc., for 
manufacturing different articles, for 
potters' use, to secure pure goods, es- 

K dally in the purchase of the following: 
a.d, manganese, oxide of zinc, borax, 
whiting, oxide of iron, and oxide of 
cobalt. The different ingredients com- 
prising any given color or glaze should 
be thoroughly mixed before being cal- 
cined, otherwise the mass will be of a 
streaky or variegated kind. Calcination 
requires care, especially in the manu- 
facture of enamel colors. Over-firing, 
particularly of colors or enamels com- 
posed m p ar t of lead, borax, antimony, or 
Mharge, causes a dullness of shade, or 
Win, that reduces their value for decora- 
tive purposes, where clearness and bril- 
liancy are of the first importance. 

lo arrest the unsightly defect of 
crazing," th e following have been the 
»ost successful methods employed, in 
tue order given: 

I.— Flux made of 10 parts tincai; 4 
P«rts oxide of zinc; 1 part soda. 



II. — A calcination of 5 p ar t s 

zinc; 1 part pearl ash. ^ S °* lde of 

III. — Addition of raw oxide of 2 ; 

6 pounds to each hundredweight t 
glaze. , °* 

To glazed brick and tile makers ™h 
chief difficulty appears to be the p'roduf 
tion of a slip to suit the contraction of 
their clay, and adhere strongly to eithe 
a clay or a burnt brick or tile, the follow! 
ing method may be recommended: 

Mix together: 

Ball clay 10 parts 

Cornwall stone 10 parts 

China clay 7 parts 

Flint 6^ parts 

To be mixed and lawned one weeki 
before use. 

To Cut Pottery. —Pottery or any soft 
or even hard stone substance can be cut 
without chipping by a disk of soft iron, 
the edge of which has been charged with 
emery, diamond, or other grinding pow- 
der, that can be obtained at any tool 
agency. The cutting has to be done 
with a libera] supply of water fed con- 
tinually to the revolving disk and the 
substance to be cut. 

BRICK AND TILEMAKERS' GLAZED 
BRICKS : 

White.— When the brick or tile leaves 
the press, with a very soft brush cover the 
part to be glazed with No. 1 Slip; after- 
wards dip the face in the same mixture. 



No. i Slip. 

Same clay as brick . 



9 parts 

Flint i p ar ; 

Ball clay f par 

China 4 P aFtS 

Allow the brick to remain slowlj -Ag 

ing for S to 10 hours, then when inoi 

dip in the white body. 



White Body.— 
China clay. . 
Ball clay .... 



24 parts 
8 parts 
8 parts 

S par v: :::::::: 

The brick should now be dried s ^ 
but thoroughly, and when pen ^ ijn . 
dip the face in clean cold water, 
mediately afterwards m gl» ze - 



Hard Glaze. — 

Feldspar - 

Cornwall stone . 

Whiting 

Oxide of zinc. . . 
Plaster of Paris. 



18 P a f 
3i part- 

1* p& rts 

14 P ar J S 
j part 




CERAMICS 



105 



grft Glaze.- 

WMtelead W par s 

Feldspar- .......... 20 parts 

grfdJofrinc. 3 parts 

Sgai 1 ^! « 5S. 

grnwall stone - S J parts 

Paris white 1 1 parts 

Where clay is used that will stand a 

high fire, the white lead and glass 
Vefy he left out. A wire brush should 
m be used to remove all superfluous 
n ? W ptc from the sides and ends of the 
E; which is then ready for the kiln. 
t niacins set the bricks face to face, 
Liit an inch space being left between 
Kp two Hazed faces. All the mixtures, 

beinf mixed with water to the con- 
iotencv of cream, must be passed 2 or 
3 "times through a very fine lawn. The 
kiln must not be opened till perfectly 
cold. 

process for Colored Glazes.— Use color, 
1 part, to white body, 7 parts. Use 
color, 1 part, to glaze, 9 parts. 

Preparation of Colors. — The specified 
ingredients should all be obtained finely 
ground, and after being mixed in the 
proportions given should, in a saggar or 
some clay vessel, be fired in the brick 
kiln and afterwards ground for use. In 
firing the ingredients the highest heat 
attainable is necessary. 

Turquoise. — 

Oxide of zinc 8 parts 

Oxide of cobalt. ..... 1 J parts 

Grass Green. — 

Oxide of chrome 6 parts 

Flint 1 part 

Oxide of copper § part 

Royal Blue.— 

Pure alumina. ....... 20 parts 

Oxide of zinc 8 parts 

Oxide of cobalt 4 parts 

Mazarine Blue. — 

Oxide of cobalt 10 parts 

iaris white. . 9 parts 

Sulphate barytes 1 part 

Brown. 

Oxide of zinc 40 parts 

J-rocus of martis G parts 

^xide of chrome 6 parts 

£ edl ead 5 parts 

gor acic ac id 5 parts 

u ed oxide of iron .... 1 part 
Dr ang e .— . 

^ure alumina 5 parts 

^Jxideofzinc 3 parts 

"ichromate of potash. 1 part 

lron scale ^ part 



Claret Brown. 

Bichromate of potaah. % paTt9 
Oxide of zinc'.'. ? 

Ir — US 

Blue Green. — 

F]S e . ofch " me ::::: I 5* 

Oxide of cobalt | par t S 

Sky Blue.— 

S^-'V- 9 Parts' 

Oxide of zinc 13 par t S 

£? balt , ; 84 parts 

-fnosphate soda 1 p ar t 

Chrome Green. — 

Oxide of chrome 3 parts 

Oxide of copper 1 part 

Carbonate of cobalt . . 1 part 

Oxide of cobalt 2 parts 

Olive. — 

Oxide of chrome 3 parts 

Oxide of zinc 2 parts 

Flint 5 parts 

Oxide of cobalt 1 part 

Blood Red.— 

Oxide of zinc 30 parts 

Crocus martis. ...... 7 parts 

Oxide of chrome 7 parts 

Litharge 5 parts 

Borax 5 parts 

Red oxide of iron 2 parts 

Black.— 

Chroma te of iron 24 parts . 

Oxide of nickel 2 parts 

Oxide of tin 2 parts 

Oxide of cobalt 5 parts 

Imperial Blue. — 

Oxide of cobalt 10 parts 

Black color H P ar J s 

Paris white ?f parts 

Flint ?*P a ^ 

Carbonate of soda. .. 1 pan 

Mahogany. — 

Chromateofiron 80 parte 

Oxide of manganese. . 20 parts 

Crocus martis 2 P arts 

Gordon Green.— 

Oxide of chrome 1| P£g 

Oxide of cobalt I f 

Violet.-— 2 i arts 

Oxide of cobal - »* ? 

Oxide of manganese.. * f 

Oxide of zinc.. ' to 

Cornwall stone 0 f 



166 



Lavender.— 

Calcined oxide of aanc S parts 
Carbonate of cobalt . . | part 

Oxide of nickel t P ar J 

Paris white 1 P art 

Brown. — 

Manganese Mparts 

Oxide of chrome 2 parts 

Oxide of zinc 4 parts 

Sulphate barytes 2 parts 

Dove.— 

Oxide of nickel Jpar s 

Oxide of cobalt 2 parts 

Oxide of chrome 1 part 

Oxide of flint 18 parts 

Paris white 3 parts 

Yellow Green. — 

Flint 6 P arts 

Paris white 4 P arts 

Bichromate of potash. 4 £ parts 

Red lead 2 parts 

Fluorspar 3 parts 

Plaster of Paris 1 J parts 

Oxide of copper £ part 

ODIES REQUIRING WO STAIN: 
Ivory. — 

Cane marl 16 parts 

Ball clay: 12 parts 

Feldspar 8 parts 

China clay 6 parts 

Flint 4 parts 

Cream.— 

Ball clay 22 parts 

China clay 5 \ parts 

Flint 5 parts 

Feldspar 3| parts 

Cane marl 12 parts 

Black.— 

Ball clay 120 parts 

Ground ocher 120 parts 

Ground manganese. 35 parts 

Buff.— 

Ball clay 12 parts 

China clay lo parts 

Feldspar 8 parts 

Bull fire clay 16 parts 

Yellow ocher 8 parts 

Drab.— 

Cane marl 30 parts 

Ball clay.. io parts 

»tone 7 p ar tg 

feldspar 4 parts 

Brown. — 

Red marl 50 parts 

^nina clay 7 parts 

Ground manganese . . 6 parts 

feldspar 3 parts 



CERAMICS 

In making mazarine blue gla Kedl)I . , 
e the white body and stain tU 1 3 

fcUC glaze 



use 
only. 



Mazarine blue. 
Glaze 



1 part 
7 Parts 



For royal blue use 1 part s t a j n t ft 
parts white body, and glaze unstained, 

Blood-Red Stain.— Numerous hri lr 
manufacturers possess beds of clay f r 
which good and sound bricks or tiP 
can be made, the only drawback bein 
that the clay does not burn a good color 
In many cases this_ arises from the fac 
that the clay contains more or less sul 
phur or other impurity, which spoils th 
external appearance of the fmishe 
article. The following stain will eo 
vert clay of any color into a rich, dee 
red, mixed in proportions of stain 1 
part, to clay, 60 parts. 

Stain. — 

Crocus martis 20 parts 

Yellow ocher 4 parts 

Sulphate of iron 10 parts 

Reel oxide of iron — . 2 parts 
A still cheaper method is to put a slip 
or external coating upon the goods. 
The slip being quite opaque, effectively 
hides the natural color of the brick or 
tile upon which it may be used. 
The process is to mix: 

Blood-red stain 1 part 

Good red clay 6 parts 

Add water until the mixture becom 
about the consistency of cream, th 
with a sponge force the liquid two or thr 
times through a very fine brass wire law 
No. 80, and dip the goods in the bqui 
as soon as they are pressed or molded. 

Blue Paviors.— Blue paving bricks 
may be produced with almost any Kina 
of clay that will stand a fair amount 0 
heat, by adopting the same methods 
in the former case of blood-red Dri 
that is, the clay may be stained tnroug 
out, or an outside coating may » 
plied. 

Stain for Blue Paviors.— 

Ground ironstone. ... 20 parts 
Chromate of iron. . . 



5 parts 
rts 



iTr g rts 

Manganese •■ , r t 

Oxide of nickel lp . ,f 

Use 1 part clay and 1 P ar < f^d 
coating, and 50 or 60 parts ciaj 
part stain for staining through- 
Fire blue paviors very hard. 

Buff Terra-Co tta Slip.— ^ 

Buff fire clay ^ 

China clay ' F 



CERAMICS 



167 



Flint. 



3 parts 
parts 

4 parts 



A . d water to the materials after mix- 
A ll dbss through the fine lawn, and 

'% th "g° ods when soft in the liquid- 
Transparent Glaze.— 

Ground flint glass 4 parts 

Ground white lead.. . . 4 parts 
Ground oxide of zinc. \ part 
This elaze is suitable for bricks or tiles 
of very good red clay, the natural 
X of the clay showing through the 



ma 



The goods .. 
Scientlv hard to make them durable, 
afterwards glazed, and fired again. The 
Le being comparatively soft will fuse at 
about half the heat required for the first 
burning. The glaze may be stained, it 
desired, with any of the colors given in 
dazed-brick recipes, in the following 
proportions: Stain, 1 part; glaze, 1 part. 

FOR POTTERY 



SPECIAL RECIPES 
AND BRICK AND TILE WORKS : 
Verifiable Bodies. — The following mix- 
tures will flux only at a very high heat. 
Thev require no glaze when a proper 
heat is attained, and they are admirably 
adapted for stoneware glazes. 

I.— Cornwall stone. ... 20 parts 

Feldspar 12 parts 

China clay 3 parts 

Whiting 2 parts 



Plaster of Paris 



1| parts 



II.— Feldspar 30 

Flint 9 

Stone. 8 

China clay 3 

Ql.— Feldspar 20 

Stone 5 

Oxide of zinc 3 

Whiting 2 

Plaster of Paris ... 1 
Soda crystals, dis- 
solved 1 

Special Glazes for Bricks or Pottery 
« One Burning.— To run these glazes 
ln tense heat is required. 

1 — Cornwall stone 40 

Flint 7 

Paris white 4 

Ball clay 15 

Oxide of zinc. ..... 6 

White lead 15 

I -— Feldspar 20 

Cornwall stone. ... 5 

Oxide of zinc 3 

Fbnt 8 , 

£<ynn sand 1$ parts 

sulphate barytea. . . 1 J parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
part 

part 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



25 
6 
2 



III— Feldspar 

Cornwall stone.!! \ 
Oxide of zinc. 
China clay 

IV. — Cornwall .stone H8 

Feldspar \\ 40 

Paris white. ... oo 
Flint ■ a ? 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



V.-Feldspar 16 parts 



China clay 4 parts 

%°P? * Parts 

Oxide of zinc. 2 partg 

Plaster of Paris .... 1 



part 
parts 
parts 
parts 



VI. — Feldspar 10 

Stone 5 

Flint 2 

Piaster... £ part 

The following glaze is excellent for 
bricks in the biscuit and pottery, whict 
require an easy firing: 

White.— 

White lead 20 parts 

Stone 9 parts 

Flint 9 parts 

Borax 4 parts 

Oxide of zinc 2 parts 

Feldspar 3 parts 

These materials should be procure! 
finely ground, and after being thoroughlj 
mixed should be placed in a fire-claj 
crucible, and be fired for 5 or 6 hours 
sharply, or until the material runs dowi 
into a liquid, then with a pair of iroi 
tongs draw the crucible from the Inl- 
and pour the liquid into a bucket of col 
water, grind the flux to an extreme! 
fine powder, and spread a coating upo 
the plate to be enameled, previous! 
brushing a little gum thereon. lh 
plate must then be fired until a sufficiei 
teat is attained to run or fuse the ^ 
der. 

POTTERY BODIES AND GLAZES; 
Ordinary.— 

L-Chinaclay f J 

| tone 3 parts 
Bone . 

II. -China clay ■• ^ ^ts 

Stone rj p ar ts 

Bone g par t s 

Bar y teS ; 5 parts 
III.— Cham clay s ^ arts 

Stone £ p ar t 

Flint g parts 

Barytes 

Superior.— g5 fa 

I. —China clay. g3 par ts 

Cornwall atone g 

Bone ' ' " a parts 

Flint v 



168 



CERAMICS 



IL-Chinaclay ™ parts 

Cornwall stone a parts 

Bone 50 parts 

Flint fP ar f 

Blue clay 4 P arts 

III. —China clay 8 parts 

Cornwall stone 40 parts 

Bone 29 parts 

Flint. 5 P ar l s 

Blue clay 18 P arts 

IV. — China clay 32 P ar ^ 

Cornwall stone 23 parts 

Bone S4 P arts 

Flint 6 P ar f 

Blue clay 5 parts 

V.— China clay 7 parts 

Stone 40 parts 

Bone 23 parts 

Flint 5 P arts 

Blue clay 20 parts 

Finest China Bodies. — 

I. — China clay 20 parts 

Bone 60 parts 

Feldspar 20 parts 

II.— China clay 30 parts 

Bone 40 parts 

Feldspar 30 parts 

III. — China clay 25 parts 

Stone 10 parts 

Bone 45 parts 

Feldspar 20 parts 

IV. — China clay 30 parts 

Stone. 15 parts 

Bone 35 parts 

Feldspar 20 parts 

Earthenware Bodies. — ■ 

I. — Ball clay 13 parts 

China clay 9$ parts 

Flint g| parts 

Cornwall stone 4 parts 

II. —Ball clay .12} parts 

China clay 8 parts 

Flint. . .' 5i parts 

Cornwall stone .... %\ parts 
One pint of cobalt 

stain to 1 ton of 

glaze. 

III. — Ball clay 13^ parts 

China clay 11 parts 

Flint 4 parts 

Cornwall stone 5 parts 

Feldspar 4 parts 

Stain as required. 

IV-— Ball clay 1S| parts 

China clay lSJfc par ts 

|J lnt 8g parts 

fa tone 4 p ar t s 

Blue stain, 2 pints to ton. 



V. — Ball clay ,. it. , 

China clay.... " 

"Flint a P art S 

Stone 4 £*™ 

Feldspar ] J JJJ* 

Blue stain, 2 pints to ton 

VI. (Parian).— 

% to " e 11 Parts 

££dspar 10 parts 

China clay g parts 

COLORED BODIES: 
Ivory Body. — 

Ball clay 22 parts 

China 5; parts 

Flint . . 5" parts 

Stone 3 1 p ar t s 

Dark Drab Body. — 

Cane marl SO parts 

Ball clay 10 parts 

Cornwall stone 7 parts 

Feldspar 1 parts 

Black Body.— 

Ball clay 120 parts 

Ocber 120 parts 

Manganese 35 parts 

Cobalt carbonate. . Mparts 

Grind the three last mentioned ingre- 
dients first. 

Caledonia Body. — 

Yellow clay 32 parts 

China clay 10 parts 

Flint 4 parts 

Brown Body. — 

Red clay. ... 50 parts 

Common clay 7i parts 

Manganese........ 1 P arl 

Flint 1 part 

Jasper Body. — 

Oawk clay 10 parts 

Blue clay 10 parts 

Bone 5 parts 

Flint 2 parts 

Cobalt i P art 

Stone Body. — 

Stone - 48 parts 

Blue clay 25 parts 

China clay 24 par ts 

Cobalt.. 10 parts 

Egyptian. Black. — 

Blue clay 235 parts 

Calcined ocher.. .. 235 P ar j* 

Manganese 45 parrs 

China clay 15 P* rtS 

Ironstone Body. — 

Stone 200 par s 

Cornwall clay 150 par* 



Hi ue clay 200 P arts 

S8-- "»Pj* 

Calx 1 P drt 



B 

Fi 
Ci 

en** Body.- 

Blue clay J| P arts 

Brown clay Imparts 

Black clay J P^t 

Cornish clay • i P a « 

Common ball clay. . i part 

Buff color i P art 

Light Drab.— 

Cane niarl 30 pa rts 

Ball clay 24 parts 

Feldspar ' P arts 

gage Body.— 

Cane marl 15 parts 

Ball clav I 5 P arts 

China clay _ 5 parts 

Stained with turquoise stain. 

COLORED GLAZES FOR POTTERY 
Blue — 

White glaze 100 parts 

Oxide of cobalt ... 3 parts 

Red lead 10 parts 

Flowing blue 3 parts 

Enamel blue 3 parts 

Grind. 

Pink.— 

White glaze 100 parts 

Red lead 8 parts 

Marone pink U. G-. 8 parts 

Enamel red 3 parts 

Grind. 

Buff.— 

White glaze 100 parts 

Red lead 10 parts 

Buff color 8 parts 

Grind. 

Ivory.— 

White glaze 100 parts 

Bed lead 8 parts 

Enamel amber 8 parts 

Yellow underglaze 2 parts 
Grind. 

Turquoise. — 

White glaze 100 parts 

£ C( \lead 10 parts 

^arbonate of soda. 5 parts 

^aamel blue 4 parts 

Malachite, 110.. . . 4 parts 
Wind. 

^ —White glaze 100 parts 

£ ed >ad 10 parts 



CERAMICS 



169 



II.— Dried flint. 



Cornwall stone'.".::;; 15^ 
Litharge 



parts 
SO parts 
4 parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 



. Oxide of uranium 
Wind. 



8 parts 



Yellow underglaze 
Grind. 

Green. — 

Flint of glass 3 £ Mtg 

hunt i £ . 

^ nod lead. .....;:;;; 6 par ts 

Grind, then take: 

Of above 1 part 

White glaze 6 parts 

Or stronger as required. 

II. — Red lead 60 

Stone ,24 

Flint 12 

Flint glass 12 

China clay 3 

Calcined oxide of 

copper 14 

Oxide of cobalt \ part 

Grind only. 

Green Glaze, Best. — 

III.— Stone 80 parts 

Flint 8 parts 

Soda crystals 4 parts 

Borax 3£ parts 

Niter % parts 

Whiting % parts 

Oxide of cobalt \ part 

Glost fire, then take: 

Above frit 60 parts 

Red lead 57 parts 

Calcined oxide of 

copper H P arts 

Black.— 

Red lead 24 parts 

Raddle 4 parts 

JSSTT ::: *5S 

Oxide of cobalt..... J pwjj 
Carbonate of cobalt. Mparts 

Glost fire. 

WHITE GLAZES: 
Chlna.-Frit: 

I. — Stone g parts 

Niter lg par ts 

Borax 4 parts 

Flint...- 2 parts 

Pearl ash 

To mill: ^ parts 

Frit 15 * p ar ts 

Stone 64 parts 

Flint. gl - p ar ts 

White lead - 01 



.—Frit: 

E£n* and «p«rg 

Feldspar P ar f 

• Paris white 16 parts 

To mill: 

Frit 90 P arts 

Stone 30 parts 

White lead 9? P ar * s 

Flint t P ar ! s 

Glass 2 parts 

% — Frit: 

Stone 50 parts 

Borax 40 parts 

Flint 30 P arts 

Flint glass 30 P arts 

Pearl barytes 10 parts 

To mill: 

FHt 160 P art3 

Red lead 30 parts 

Enamel blue 4 part 

Flint glass 2 parts 

-Frit: 

Borax . 100 parts 

China clay 55 parts 

Whiting 60 parts 

Feldspar 75 parts 

To mill: 

Frit £00 parts 

China clay 16 parts 

White clay 31 parts 

Stone 3 parts 

Flint 2 parts 

V.— Frit: 

Stone 40 parts 

Flint 25 parts 

Niter 10 parts 

Borax 20 parts 

White lead 10 parts 

Flint glass 40 parts 

To mill: 

Frit 145 parts 

Stone 56 parts 

Borax . . 16 parts 

Flint 15 parts 

Red lead 60 parts 

Flint glass 8 parts 

Earthenware. — Frit: 

^J?™*---, 108 parts 

China clay 45 parts 

Paris white 60 parts 

Borax 80 parts 

Soda crystals 30 parts 

To mill: 

|™t 270 parts 

* !mt 20 parts 



Paris white .... 

Stone " o ft P aw s 

White lead .'" 

b0 parts 

II. — Frit: 

Flint ro „ 

China clay \" \ s 

Pariswh/e /.IsS 

Boracic acid 4g f^r; 

Soda crystals '. 26 parts 

To mill: 

g" 1 230 p aits 

?t?ne 160 parts 

J lm * 60 parts 

120 parts 

III. — Frit: 

Stone. . 56 parts 

Fans white 55 parts 

Flint 60 parts 

China clay SO parts 

Borax 120 parts 

Soda crystals 15 parts 

To mill: 

Frit 212 parts 

Stone 130 parts 

Flint 50 parts 

Lead 110 parts 

Stain as required. 

IV. — Frit: 

Stone 100 parts 

Flint 44 parts 

Paris white 46 parts 

Borax 70 parts 

Niter... 10 parts 

To mill: 

Frit ........... 2°° P arts 

Stone.'.'.*.. 60 parts 

Lead SO parts 

Pearl White Glaze.— Frit: 

Flint 50 parts 

Stone 100 par s 

Faris white........ 20 par te 

Borax 60 part 

Soda crystals 20 parts 

To mill: , 
Frit 17S P otmd5 

L ead 55 P ° Un ^ 

£f aa 3 ounces 

btam 

Opaque Glaze. — Frit: 

?, orax It pSs 
Stone • „ £ ar t3 

Lead:;:::::::::::- 




CERAMICS 



171 



.... 10 parts 

^'flls " •■ Sparta 
Hint gla* ; r 

tnr Granite.— Frit : 
Glaze for <* rd 100 partg 



j , Stpne- • so partg 

El 1 ? Jiinv . . 30 parts 

China clay £ 

- w bite J0 P arts 



Paris wnne - «- 

Feldspar. . .. par * S 



Cnrlfl crystals ' " f""^'" 

bodauj 80 parts 

Borax 

frf? 360 parts 

S",::;: 50 parts 

lone':: ^parts 

Lead 8 °P arts 

II —Frit: 

Bor« 100 parts 

Stone 50 par s 

Flint ^ P arts 

Paris while 40 parts 

China clay 20 parts 

To mill: 

Frit 210 parts 

Stone 104 parts 

Flint 64 parts 

Lead 95 parts 

Raw Glazes. — White: 

L— White lead 160 parts 

Borax 32 parts 

Stone 48 parts 

Flint 52 parts 

Stain -with blue and grind. 

II. — White lead 80 parts 

Litharge 60 parts 

Boracic acid 40 parts 

Stone 45 parts 

Flint. 50 parts 

Treat as foregoing. 

III. —White lead 100 parts 

Borax 4 parts 

Flint 11 parts 

Cornwall stone. .. . 50 parts 

Red lead 80 parts 

Litharge (50 parts 

1-inca.l 40 parts 

ktone 40 parts 

* hnt 52 parts 



40 parts 



feoHGHAM GLAZES^ 
■ Litharge. .... 



— 50 parts 

^ one 7^ parts 

if ? marl 3" par ts 

^Jxide of manganese 5 parts 
n r, etl oxl dc of iron. . . 1 part 

^HteWd 30 parts 

S?" e 3 parts 

5 l ? 9 parts 

ft^marl 3 parts 

Manganese 5 parts 



III. — Red lead 9ft „ . 

Stone... 20 parts 

Flint. 3 parts 



Manganese.. .. .... 3 ^ 



1 part 



parta 

.... "! 

Red oxide of iron 

Stoneware Bodies, — 

^. lcla 7 ■ 14 parts 

China clay 10 parts 

Stone Sparta 

Ball clay 8 parts 

China clay 5 par t s 

Flint 3 par t s 

Stone 4 p ar t 

Ball clay 14 parts 

China clay 11 parts 

Flint 4 parts 

Stone 5 parts 

Feldspar 4 parts 

Cane marl 16 parts 

China clay 10 parts 

Stone 9 parts 

Flint 5 parts 

Glazes. — Hard glaze: 

Stone 10 parts 

Flint 5 parts 

Whiting 14 parts 

Red lead 10 parts 

Hard glaze: 

Feldspar ■ 25 parts 

Flint 5 P arts 

Red lead 15 parts 

Plaster 1 P art 

Softer: 

White lead 13 P al 

Flint glass 10 P a ; 

Feldspar 1| P a < « 

Stone S parU 

Whiting 1J parts 

Best: 

Feldspar f. P"£ 

Flint glass . \\ Pj£ 

White lead " PJ^ 

Stone. 3 wts 

Oxide of nnc U parts 

Whiting 1 part 

Plaster 

Rockingham Bodies.- ^ ^ 

Ball clay j 3 p ar t 3 

China clay " 7 pa rts 

Flint 1 part 

Stone 

. m pa rts 
Cane marl ] g par tg 

China clay 8 parts 

Flint 1 part 

Feldspar 



Glazes. — 

I. — Red lead 60 

Stone g 

Red clay £ 

Best manganese. . - » 

II.— White lead 60 

Feldspar 6 

Flint 1J 

Red clay & 

Manganese 1* 

in.— Red lead 10 ° 

Stone ■ IS 

Flint JO 

China clay 

Manganese.. 40 

Crocus martis 2 



CERAMICS 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



IV.— Litharge 100 parts 

Feldspar 14 P arts 

China clay 20 parts 

Manganese 40 parts 

Oxide of iron Mparts 

Jet. — Procure some first-class red marl, 
add water, and, by passing through a fine 
lawn, make it into a slip, and dip the 
ware therein. 

When fired use the following: 

Glaze. — 

Stone 60 parts 

Flint 30 parts 

Paris white 7£ parts 

Red lead 140 parts 

One part mazarine blue stain to 10 
parts glazf* 

Mazarine Blue Stain. — 

Oxide of cobalt 10 parts 

Paris white ........ 9 parts 

Sulphate barytes .... 1 part 

Calcine. 

Another Process Body. — 

Ball clay 16 parts 

China clay 12 parts 

Flint clay 9 parts 

Stone clay 6 parts 

Black stain 7 parts 

Glaze.— 

Litharge 70 parts 

Paris white 3 parts 

Flint 12 p ar ts 

Stone 30 parts 

Black stain 20 parts 

Black Stain. — 

Chromate of iron ... 12 parts 

Oxide of nickel 2 parts 

Oxide of tin , . 2 parts 

Carbonate of cobalt. 5 parts 
Oxide of manganese . 2 parts 
Calcine and grind. 



Blue Stains. — 

I. — Oxide of cobalt. 

Oxide of zinc * 

Stone 

Fire this very hard. 

II.— Zinc... 

Flint 

China clay 

Oxide of cobalt. 
Hard fire. 
III.— Whiting 

Flint 

Oxide of cobalt 

Glost fire. 
Turquoise Stain. — 

Prepared cobalt . . , 

Oxide of zinc 

China clay 

Carbonate of soda , 
Hard fire. 



l\ Parts 
l\ Parts 
7 4 parts 

6 pounds 
4 pounds 

4 Pounds 

5 ounces 

3| parts 
s l parts 
H parts 



1$ parts 
6 parts 
6 parts 
1 part 



MATERIALS : 
Tin Ash.— 

Old lead 4 parts 

Grain tin 2 parts 

Melt in an iron ladle, and pour out in 
water, then spread on a dish, and calcine 
in glost oven with plenty of air. 

Oxide of Tin.— 

Granulated tin 5 pounds 

Niter * pound 

Put on saucers and fire in glost oven. 

Oxide of Chrome is made by mixing 
powdered bichromate of potash with 
sulphur as follows: 

Potash 6 parts 

Flowers of sulphur.. 1 part 

Put in saggar, inside kiln so that 
fumes are carried away, and place 4 or 
5 pieces of red-hot iron on the top so as 
to ignite it. Lea ve about 1 2 hours, then 
pound very fine, and put in saggar ■ agai"- 
Calcine in hard place of biscuit oven. 
Wash this until the water is quite clear, 
and dry for use. 

Production of Luster Colors on Por- 
celain and Glazed Pottery.-Jbc > 
colors are readily decomposed L j> use 
and atmospheric influences, o ^ 
they do not contain, in c° nse( l u !J 10U gh 
the low baking temperature, J s . 
silicic acid to form resistive comp b&s 
In order to attain this, G- Al« 
patented a process according t j yster 
such compounds are added to i ti)6 

Preparations as leave behi nd a tte 
urning an acid which transi - st j n g 
luster preparation into more 



CERAMICS 



TO 



i j n this connection the ad- 
^n>p<? uoa f * ch bodies has been found 
Ciis^jious, as they form phosphides 
4? n £f metallic oxfdea of the fusters 
*' th X burning. These phosphides 
after fitted f or the production of 

0t espec 1 ^ isting compounds, not only 
* at Sit of their insolubility - « 
0 on account of their 
liy titanic, molybdic, tui 
S^dic compounds may be j 



on 



I A FPSI ■> I L 1 1 V^ViilJ;-'""*'""? V 

nnnt of their insolubility in water, 
- f on account of their colorings. 
* ut -f tie titanic, molybdic, tungstic, and 
^fdk^ponndsVay be produced. 
Sf^ffttUc phosphates produced by 
KS?e a luster coating which, 
the SSSSoM. is not inferior to the non- 
^Sted metallic oxides, while it mate- 
Elv excels them in power of resistance 
W>% the lusters to be applied are used 
3 lived in essential oils, it is necessary 
t make the admixture of phosphoric 
Stance also in a form soluble in essen- 
tial oils. For the production of this 
admixture the respective chlorides, pre- 
eminently phosphoric chloride, are suit- 
able They are mixed with oil ot lav- 
ender in the ratio of 1 to 5 and the 
resulting reaction product is added to the 
commercial metallic oxide luster, singly 
or in conjunction with precious metal 
preparations (glossy gold, silver, plati- 
num, etc.) in the approximate propor- 
tion of 5 to 1. Then proceed as usual. 
Instead of the chlorides, nitrates and 
acetates, as well as any readily destruc- 
tible organic compounds, may also be 
employed, which are entered into fusing 
rosin or rosinous liquids. 

Metallic Luster on Pottery. — Accord- 
ing to a process patented in Germany, a 
mixture is prepared from various natural 
or artificial varieties of ocher, to which 
25-50 per cent of finely powdered more 
or less metalliferous or sulphurous coal is 
added. The mass treated in this man- 
ner is brought together in saggars with 
bttely divided organic substances, such 
ft s sawdust, shavings, wood-wool, cut 
straw, etc., and subjected to feeble red 
neat. After the heating the material is 
Jakeu out. The glazings now exhibit 
£at thin hut stable metallic color which 
governed by the substances used. 

Shi C ° a1, - Salts and oxides of silver > 
DfL u, cadmium, chrome iron, nickel, 

^S^ese, copper, or zinc may be em- 
^ ye ^- The color-giving layer is re- 
tiie^ ^ cashing or brushing, while 
toai lr , ed col °r is burned in and re- 
c . aT1 r [ s - In this manner handsome shades 
tan be produced. 

fJ!L et ? llic Glaze s on Enamels.— The 

ItaH n U used b y tne Arabs and their 
an successors are partly disclosed in 
scripts in the British and South 



below: gt ° a MmeUm3; two 

r, , , . , Arab Italian 

Copper su phide 26i87 M 74 

Silver sulphide j lfi V nt 

Mercury sulphide ' 04' 74 

Hed ocher 71.' 98 4 9 .49 

These were ground with vinegar and 
applied with the brush to the already 
baked enamel. A great variety of iri- 
descent and metallic tones can be ob- 
tained by one or the other, or a mixture 
of the following formulas: 

I II III IV V VI 
Copper carbonate. . 30 .. .. 28 .. 95 

Copper oxalate 5 

Copper sulphide 20 . . .. 

Silver carbonate 3 .. 2 15 

Bismuth subnitrate. . . 12 . , . , 10 
Stannous oxide. .. . . .. 25 .. .. 

Red ocher 70 85 55 70 84 

Silver chloride and yellow ocher may 
be respectively substituted for silver car- 
bonate and red ocher. The ingredients 
ground with a little gum tragacanth ant 
water, are applied with a brush to enam 
els melting about 1814° F-, and are fur 
naced at 1202° F. in a reducing atmos 
phere. After cooling the ferruginou 
deposit is rubbed off, and the colors thu 
brought out. . 

Sulphur, free or combined, 13 not nec 
easary, cinnabar has no action, oche 
may be dispensed with, and any orgam 
gummy matter may be used instead o 
vinegar, and broom is not needed in tli 
furnace. The intensity and tone of th 
iridescence depend on the duration 0 
the reduction, and the nature of th 
enamel. Enamels containing a color n 
base-copper, iron, antimony, nicke 
especially in presence of tin, give t 
best results. 

To Toughen China. -To touebe 
china or J^' ^Ji 

with hot water. 

„ x t d ii pntterv and Porcelain. 
How to Tell P« tt «7 * t w m serve 
The following f^P ]e th rfight, and if j 
Hold the P-ce h UP u tO h the h lJ . f ft . 



Can f C :*t~£%Tor^ : lottery i 
translucent—it is p 



white a 
fferences in th 
earthenware 

manufacture 01 ^Tn^ to the ingredien 1 
a „d .porcdam are -due to th 

rhfde^eof TelttoUich they are sub 



CHEESE 



in firinff- Most of the old English 
wares found In this country are pottery 
or /emichina, although the term china 
is commonly applied to them ali. 

Cheese 

Manufacture.— The process of cheese 
making is one which is eminently in- 
teresting and scientific and which, in 
every gradation, depends on principles 
which chemistry has developed and il- 
lustrated. When a vegetable or min- 
eral acid is added to milk, and heat 
applied, a coagulum is formed, which, 
when separated from the liquid por- 
tion, constitutes cheese. Neutral salts, 
earthy and metallic salts, sugar, and 
gum arable, as well as some other sub- 
stances, also produce the same effect; 
but that which answers the purpose 
best, and which is almost exclusively 
used by dairy farmers, is rennet, or the 
mucous membrane of the last stom- 
ach of the calf. Alkalies dissolve this 
curd at a boiling heat, and acids again 
precipitate it. The solubility of casein 
in milk is occasioned by the presence of 
the phosphates and other salts of the alka- 
lies. In fresh milk these substances may 
be readily detected by the property it 
possesses of restoring the color of red- 
dened litmus paper. The addition of an 
acid neutralizes the alkali, and so pre- 
cipitates the curd in an insoluble state. 
The philosophy of cheese making is thus 
expounded by Liebig: 

" The acid indispensable to the co- 
agulation of milk is not added to the milk 
in the preparation of cheese, but it is 
formed m the milk at the expense of the 
milk-sugar present. A small quantity 
of water is left in contact with a small 
quantity of a calf's stomach for a few 
Hours, or for a night; the water absorbs 
so minute a portion of the mucous mem- 
brane as to be scarcely ponderable; this 
is mixed with milk ; its state of transfor- 
mation is communicated (and this is a 
most important circumstance) not to the 
cheese, but to the milk-sugar, the ele- 
ments of which transpose themselves 
!ujx> lactic acid, which neutralizes the 
alkalies, and thus causes the separation 
of the cheese. By means of litmus paper 
the process may be followed and observed 
through all its stages; the alkaline re- 
action of the milk ceases as soon as the 
coagulation begins. If the cheese is not 
immedxately separated from the whey, 
*£ C |°T^ atloI i of lactic acid continues, 
tne thud turns acid, and the cheese itself 
passes into a state of decomposition. 



"When cheese-curd is kept in 
place a series of transformation^^ 01 
place, in consequence of which it 
sumes entirely new properties; it er f 3 * 
ally becomes semi-transparent' and 



or less soft, throughout the wh 0 ] e *° re 
it exhibits a feebly acid reaction S 
develops the characteristic caseous 'nH 



Fresh cheese is very sparingly so l uble , 
water, but alter having been left to i 
for two or three years it becomes ( e3 . 



itself 

pecially if all the "fat be previously ^ 
moved) almost completely soluble in 
cold water, forming with it a solution 
which, like milk, is coagulated by the 
addition of the acetic or any mineral 
acid. The cheese, which whilst fresh is 
insoluble, returns during the maturation 
or ripening, as it is called, to a state siml 
ilar to that in which it originally existed 
in the milk. In those English, Dutch 
and Swiss cheeses which are nearly in- 
odorous, and in the superior kinds of 
French cheese, the casein of the milk is 
present in its unaltered state. 

" The odor and flavor of the cheese is 
due to the decomposition of the butter; 
the non-volatile acids, the margaric and 
oleic acids, and the volatile butyric acid, 
capric and caproic acids are liberated 
in consequence of the decomposition 
of glycerine. Butyric acid imparts to 
cheese its characteristic caseous odor, 
and the differences in its pungency or 
aromatic flavor depend upon the propor- 
tion of free butyric, capric, and caproic 
acids present. In the cheese of certain 
dairies and districts, valerianic acid has 
been detected along with the other acids 
just referred to. Messrs Jljenjo and 
Laskowski found this acid in the cheese 
of Limbourg, and M. Bolard in that ot 
Roquefort. , . . .J 

" The transition of the insoluble into 
soluble casein depends upon the ae 
composition of the phosphate of Lime ura 
the margaric acid of the butter; mar 
garate of lime is formed, whilst the pnj 
phoric acid combines with the casein, 
forming a compound soluble in vaw ■ 

"Th% bad smell of inferior km* * 
cheese, especially those called mea a d 
poor cheeses, is caused by certain ich 
products containing sulphur, ana 
are formed by the decomposition t o i ^ 
tref action of the casein. llie ,., *,* j s in 
which the butter undergoes (t n* r tbe 
becoming rancid), or which occu 
milk-sugar still present, bel g ot h the 
mitted to the casein, c hang eS aJJ( j 
composition of the latter substan 
its nutritive qualities. _ ^thepreP" 

" The principal conditions ; for 
aration of the superior kinds 



CHEESE 



hvious circumstances being of 
(otbef °Q regarded) are a, careful 
c" urse i of the whey, which holds the 
r effi° vaI " i n solution, and a low tem- 
0 jilk-sug a (lurin(r the saturation or rip- 

P e r a * U of the cheese." 

eD' n P 1 differs vastly in quality and 
Cbee r c cordSg to the method em- 



m *A tnYte manufacture and the rich- 
pl °" V of the milk of which it is made. 



ik 

Rennet is 
and dried; 
The milk 



p f\ depends upon the quantity of 
>IU it contains, and, consequently, 
C T , superior quality of cheese is de- 
Ff cream is frequently added to the 
SirC J This plan is adopted m the man- 
Tin re of Stilton cheese and others of 
ft description. The addition of a 
loLnd or two of butter to the curd for a 
Sliae size cheese also vastly improves 
the quality of the product. To msure 
he richness of the milk, not only should 
he cows be properly fed but certain 
breeds chosen. Those of Aldcrney, 
Cheddar, Cheshire, etc., have been 
widely preferred. 

The materials employed m making 
cheese are milk and rennet, 
used either fresh or salted 
generally in the latter state, 
may be of any kind, according to the 
quality of the cheese required. Cows' 
milk is that generally employed, but. occa- 
sionally ewes' milk is used; and some- 
times, though more rarely, that from 
goats. 

In preparing his cheese the dairy 
farmer puts the greater portion of the 
milk into a large tub, to which he adds 
the remainder, sufficiently heated to 
raise the temperature to that of new 
jp|. The whole is then whisked to- 
gether, the rennet or rennet liquor added, 
and the tub covered over. It is now al- 
lowed to stand until completely " turned," 
w hen the curd is gently struck down 
several times with the skimming dish, 
ffler which it is allowed to subside. 

vat, covered with cheese cloth, is 
De *t placed on a "horse" or "ladder" 
the tub, and filled with curd by 
t ea ° s °f the skimmer, care being taken 
J» a [low as little as possible of the oily 
St i r£ T butter to run back with the 
the^' a Q cur ^ ^ s P resse d down with 
Thi : ana more added as it sinks. 
ri s I P r °cess is repeated until the curd 
to about two inches above the edge. 
senaJTl 7 for ^ed cheese, thus partially 
in ; a c i ed trom whey, is now placed 
salt ■ eaU \ n ^' an d a proper quantity of 
"ciatr l • as of annotta, added when 
la pUp i ng is used - aEter which a board 
— ^..cecl over and under it, and pressure 

The 




submitted to preZ i^mTcEe 
press for 8 or 10 hours, after which it is 
commonly removed from the presa salted 
all over, and again pressed for 15 to aS 
hours The quality of the cheese es- 
pecially depends on this part of the proc- 
ess, as if any of the whey is left in the 
cheese it rapidly becomes bad-flavored 
Before placing it in the press the last 
time the common practice is to pare the 
edges smooth and sightly. It now only 
remains to wash the outside of the 
cheese in warm whey or water, to wipe 
it dry, and to color it with annotta or 
reddle, as is usually done. 

The storing of the newly made chees 
is the next point that engages the atten- 
tion of the maker and wholesale dealer 
The same principles which infhienc 
the maturation or ripening of f ermente 
liquors also operate here. A cool cella 
neither damp nor dry, and which is un- 
influenced by change of weather or sea 
son, is commonly regarded as the bes 
for the purpose. If possible, the tei 
perature should on no account be per 
mittcd to exceed 50° or 5°Z° F. at an 
portion of the year. An average o 
about 45° F. is preferable when it can b 
procured. A place exposed to sudde 
changes of temperature is as unfit fo 
storing cheese as it is for storing bee 
" The quality of Roquefort cheese, whic 
is prepared from sheep's milk, and » 
very excellent, depends exclusively upo 
the places where the cheeses are ke 
after pressing and during .maturatm 
These are cellars, com mum eating wit 
mountain grottoes and caverns wine 
Se kept constantly cool, at about 4 
4,a° F bv currents of air from delta l 
tl mounlains. The value of these ce 
lars as storehouses . £ varies ^ith^the 

sligh 



property of maintaining an 



low temperature 



"it "will thus be seen that very ^ 
iff erlnces in the materials in tbepre 
aration, or in storing o i the cbe ^ 
terially "Auence the quaU^ ^ ^ 
of this article. The . f crea 

the addition .to or .^tractm.^ ^ f 



from 
cu 



milk, the .separation 



i; P T i ver and under it, and pressure , that 

ile d for about a or 3 hours. The 1 tioular. and 



>m the » UK v J^"'^^ without co ; 
rd from the whey witn°r f 

pression; the salting o ^ 
Collection of *e cu«|. the addition 
broken, before P'J^fo or saffro n, or 
coloring matter as arm thod of sto 

flavoring; the place an ^ d f 

ing; and the lengtn o the te 
maturation, all tend to a otber po 

°. do T ? a way readily perce 



176 



CHEESE 



tibte to the P****^™™Z 

?° £fs t7ol% y 355d by flight 

I^^ASe^cesi/themetE- 

^e^SILTof cheese met with in 
commerce are very numerous, and differ 
;h other in richness, color, 



greatly from eact 
and flavor. ! 



These are commonly dis- 
tinguished by names indicative of the 
2es in which they have been manufac- 
tCed! or of the quality of the materials 
from which they have been prepared. 
Thus we have Dutch, Gloucester, Stil- 
ton, skimmed milk, raw milk, cream, and 
other cheeses; names which explain them- 
selves. The following are the principal 
varieties : 

American Factory. —Same as Cheddar. 

Brickbat.— Named from its form; 
made, in Wiltshire, of new milk and 
cream. 

Brie.— A soft, white, cream cheese of 
French origin. 

Cheddar. — A fine, spongy kind of 
cheese, the eyes or vesicles of which con- 
tain a rich oil; made up into round, thick 
cheeses of considerable size (150 to 200 
pounds). 

Cheshire. — From new milk, without 
skimming, the morning's milk being 
mixed with that oE the preceding even- 
ing's, previously warmed, so that the 
whole may be brought to the heat of new 
milk. To this the rennet is added, in 
less quantity than is commonly used for 
other kinds of cheese. On this point 
much of the flavor and mildness of the 
cheese is said to depend. A piece of 
dried rennet, of the size of a half-dollar 
put into a pint of water over night, and 
allowed to stand until the next morn- 
ing, is sufficient for 18 or 20 gallons of 
milk; in large, round, thick cheeses (100 
to 200 pounds each). They are gen- 
erally solid, homogeneous, and dry, and 
friable rather than viscid. 

Cottenham, — A rich kind of cheese, in 
flavor and consistence not unlike Stilton, 
from which, however, it differs in shape, 
being flatter and broader than the latter. 

Cream. — From the "strippings" (the 
last of the milk drawn from the cow at 
each milking), from a mixture of milk 
and cree.m, or from raw cream only, ac- 
cording to the quality desired. It is 
usually made in small oblong, square, or 
rounded cakes, a general pressure only 
(that of a 2- or 4-pound weight) being 



applied to press out the whey Aft 
hours it is placed upon a board or SA* 
en trencher, and turned everv rli 
dry. It ripens in about 3 weS^H 1 
little salt is generally added and f A 
quently a little powdered lump sugar 

Damson.— Prepared from d attl , n 
boiled with a little water, the pulp 
through a sieve and then boiled with 
about one-fourth the weight of SUs 
until the mixture solidifies on coolinK 
is next poured into small tin molds pre- 
viously dusted out with sugar. Cher™ 
cheese, gooseberry cheese, plum cheese 
etc., are prepared in the same way, M S \ n „ 
the respective kinds of fruit. They are 
all very agreeable candies or confections. 

Derbyshire.— A small, white, rich 
variety, very similar to Dunlop cheese, 

Dunlop. — Rich, white, and buttery 
in round forms, weighing from 30 to 60 
pounds. 

Dutch (Holland).— Of a globular 
form, 5 to 14 pounds each. Those from 
Edam are very highly salted; those from 
Gouda less so. 

Emmenthaler. — Same as Gruyere. 

Gloucester. — Single Gloucester, from 
milk deprived of part of its cream; dou- 
ble Gloucester, from milk retaining the 
whole of the cream. Mild tasted, semi- 
buttery consistence, without being fri- 
able; in large, round, flattish forms. 

Green or Sage.— From milk mixed with 
the juice of an infusion or decoction of 
sage leaves, to which marigold flowers 
and parsley are frequently added. 

Gruyere. — A fine kind of cheese made 
in Switzerland, and largely consumed 
on the Continent. It is firm and dry. 
and exhibits numerous ceils ol c< 
siderable magnitude. 

Holland. Same as Dutch. 

Legummous.-The Chinese prepjw 
an actual cheese from peas, call J r 
foo, which they sell in the streets ot ^ 
ton. The paste from steeped «ru * 
peas is boiled, which causes the s a 
dissolve With the casein; alter »' .^ o3 
the liquid it is coagulated by a up 
of gypsum; this coagulum is *° ^ d int0 
like sour milk, salted, and press* 
molds. jjeese, 

Limb urge r. ~A strong variety of 
soft and well ripened. 

Lincoln.— From new milk an g 0 ft, 
in pieces about 2 inches thick- 
will not keep over 2 or 3 montns- 




CHEESE 



ety. 



» te l _A much-csteeraed vari- 
jf e ufcHa *. ese . ma <J e of cream, and 



about 5 or 6 ounces 



N0I fS" good, bl 
jScofSOtofiOpo 



Dyed yellow with annotta 
but not superior; in 
unds. 



m t h added at aoout , any iu 
renfl fiWwards the curdling milk is set 
hoUr i w fire until heated to about 150° 
f during which the curd separates in 
^.H lumps- A few pinches of saftron 
5m h Hnrown in. About a fortnight 
Xr making the outer crust is cut off, 
! the new surface varnished with lm- 
Soil, and one side colored red. 

Eoqwefort.— From ewes' milk; the 
Wt prepared in France. It greatly 
resembles Stilton, but is scarcely of 
equal richness or quality, and possesses 
a peculiar pungency and flavor. 

Roquefort, Imitation.— The gluten of 
wheat is kneaded with a httle salt and a 
small portion of a solution of starch, and 
made up into cheeses. It is said that 
this mixture soon acquires the taste, 
smell, and unctuosity of cheese, and 
when kept a certain time is not to be dis- 
tinguished from the celebrated Roquefort 
cheese, of which it possesses all the pecu- 
liar pungency. By slightly varying the 
process other kinds of cheese may be 
imitated. 

Sage. — Same as green cheese, 

SUpcoat or Soft. — A very rich, white 
cheese, somewhat resembling butter; 
for present use only. 

Stilton. — The richest and finest cheese 
aade in England. From raw milk to 
which cream taken from other milk is 
added; in cheeses generally twice as high 
as they are broad. Like wine, this 
,L eese is vastly improved by age, and is 
j e Crefor f seldom eaten before it is 2 
j ars old. A. spurious appearance of 
J><j is sometimes given to it by placing 
loSa* Warrn > damp cellar, or by sur- 
ib. 8 11 wita masses of fermenting 

«4nK^ Fro?n skimme<1 milk ^ in 
each v forms > from 24 to 30 pounds 

s w - y ha:rd and horn y- 

in T^ e P" n eipal cheeses made 

*Wf(K- f and are the Gruyerc, the 
ffeen i * aml tlle Schabzieger or 
melif? C " ThC la " er 13 flavored 

^lU^ 1 ^ 1 ^ 11 -— Made in small ball's or 
ot about 1 pound each. It derives 



177 

being pressed InTmall fc^ft 
about 1 pound each. ot 

Wiltshire. — Resembles Cheshire ™ 
Gloucester. The outside is pSnted w iS 
reddle or red ocher or whey. 

York.— From cream. It will not keep. 

We giye below the composition of 
some ot the principal varieties of cheese: 

Double 

Ched- Glouces- Skim 
dar ter 

Water 36.64 35.61 43.64 

Casein 33.38 21.76 45.64 

Fatty matter 35.44 38.16 5.76 

Mineral matter. . 4.54 4.47 4.96 

100.00 100.00 100.00 



Stilton 

Water 32.18 

Butter 37.36 

Casein 24.31 

Milk, sugar, and ex- 
tractive matters. . .-. 2.22 
Mineral matter 3.93 



C other- 
stone 
38.28 
30.89 
23.93 

3.70 
3.20 



100.00 100.00 

Gruyere Ordinary 

(Swiss) Dutch 

Water 40.00 36.10 

Casein.'::: g-JO 29.40 

Fatty matter 34.00 87.50 

Salts 3 " 00 ,8U 

Non- nitrogenous or- 
ganic matter and ^ 

loss . 

100.00 100.00 

When a whole cheese is cut, and the 
coemption small, it. J»^G£ 
to become unpleasantly diy, anQ ^ h| is 
flavor before it is consumed. Thi ^ 
best Prevented by^cutimg ^ tion 

quantity for a te ^ Jj u i eep i„ K the re- 
from the. cheese and I keep, g 
mainder m a cool place, r fa 
than dry, spreading a thmn 
over the fresh surface, ana 

with a cloth « K oSectSi existing in 
This removes the opj ^ hasing a 

small families against ^ commo n 
whole cheffie at a time. quftn tities of 
practice of buyinj ffl £ t Qn a 
cheese should be avoi d«L iveQ qual ( t y, 

higher price |? Jg'g^hoifof obtaining 
but there is ht^ hkentm runn ,ng. 

^ f l£^bJ5S*oo d* to be 



178 



UiiJi vv ii 



agreeable, it may be u«d for Jt^n^ 
or for making grated cheese, or Welsn 
rarebits. 

Goats' Milk Cheese.— Goats milk 
cheese is made as follows: Warm 20 
quarts of milk and coagulate it with 
rennet, either the powder or extract. 
Separate the curds from the whey in a 
LTander. After a few days the dry curd 
Say be shaped into larger or smaller 
cheeses, the former only salted, the latter 
containing salt and caraway seed, ine 
cheeses must be turned every day and 
gprinkled with salt, and any mold re- 
Xved. After a few days they may be 
put away on shelves to ripen, and left for 
Several weeks. Pure goat's milk .cheese 
should be firm and solid all the way 
through. Twenty quarts of milk will 
make about 4 pounds of cheese. 

CHEESE COLORANT: 

See Food. 
CHEMICAL GARDENS: 

See Gardens, Chemical. 

CHERRY BALSAM: 
See Balsam. 

CHERRY CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 



Chewing Gums 

Manufacture. — The making of chew- 
ing gum is by no means the simple oper- 
ation which it seems to be ; Much expe- 
rience in manipulation is necessary to 
succeed, and the published formulas can 
at best serve as a guide rather than as 
something to be absolutely and blindly 
followed. Thus, if the mass is either too 
hard or soft, change the proportions until 
it is right; often it will be found that 
different purchases of the same article 
will vary in their characteristics when 
worked up. But given a basis, the man- 
ufacturer can flavor and alter to suit 
himself. The most successful manu- 
facturers attribute their success to the 
employment of the most approved ma- 
chinery and the greatest attention to 
details. The working formulas and the 
processes of these manufacturers are 
guarded as trade secrets, and aside from 
publishing general formulas, little in- 
formation can be given. 

Chicle gum is purified by boiling with 
water and separating the foreign matter. 
Flavorings, pepsin, sugar, etc., are 
worked in under pressure by suitable 
machinery. Formula: 



I. — Gum chicle lp d 

glucose. i pou d 

Caramel butter 1 pou na 

First mash and soften the gum at 
gentle heat. Place the sugar and X? 
cose in a small copper pan; add enoupK 
water to dissolve the sugar; set on a fH 
and cook to 244° F»; lift off the fire- ad *j 
the caramel butter and lastly the gum 
mix well into a smooth paste; roll out on a 
smooth marble, dusting with finely p ow _ 
dered sugar, run through sizing machine 
to the proper thickness, cut into strips 
and again into thin slices. 

II. — Chicle 6 ounces 

Paraffine 2 ounces 

Balsam of Tolu .... 2 drachms 

Balsam of Peru. . . 1 drachm 

Sugar SO ounces 

Glucose 8 ounces 

Water 6 ounces 

Flavoring, enough. 

Triturate the chicle and balsams in 
water, take out and add the paraffine, 
first heated. Boil the sugar, glucose, 
and water together to what is known to 
confectioners as "crack" heat, pour the 
syrup over the oil slab and turn into it 
the gum mixture, which will make it 
tough and plastic. Add any desired 
flavor. 

III. — Gum chicle 122 parts 

Paraffine 42 parts 

Balsam of Tolu.... 4 parts 

Sugar 384 parts 

Water 43 parts 

Dissolve the sugar in the water by the 
aid of heat and pour the resultant syrup 
on an oiled slab. Melt the gum, balsam, 
and paraffine together and pour on top 
of the syrup, and work the whole up to- 
gether. 

IV. -Gum chicle 240 parts 

White wax 64 part 

Que™ r .... 640 parts 

Sy gar log parts 

Glucose ' „ ta 

Water ^ pa ts 

Balsam of Peru... Mparts 
Flavoring matter, enough 
Proceed as indicated in U- 
V.-BalsamofTolu...... {jj 

Benzoin . £ rt 

F*™ $ 

Paraffine £ art 

Powdered sugar. ■ • - *■ „ int0 
Melt together, mix well, and r 
sticks of the usual dimensions. tq] \ 
Mix, and, when sufficient^ ^ sjrab le 
out into sticks or any otner 
form. 



CHEWING GUMS— CHOLERA REMEDIES 



.Chewing Gum.— 



SP Spruce gum, 

Chicle ■ 

Sugar, powdered. 



20 parts 
20 parts 
60 parts 



, tbe gums separately mix while 
1 j immediately add the sugar, a 
tiot> * n ■ -J- - f ; ">•=■ Vne.idinp it thor- 



on 



k**r_rion at a time, kneading it thor 
ia ll portion ' slab whcn eom 



oagh I y ,-^orporatcd remove to a cold 
ifU^Sy dusted , with powdered 
sIab " mil out at once into sheets, and 
sll gar, roi Any d es j re d flavor or 

C Sor may be added to or incorporated 

Jifthe sugar. 

CHICKEK-COOP APPLICATION: 

Sec Insecticides. 

THICKEN DISEASES AND THEIR 
REMEDIES : 
gee Veterinary Formulas. 

CHICORY, TESTS FOR: 
See Foods. 

CHILBLAINS: 

See Ointments. 

CHILBLAIN SOAP: 

See Soap. 

CHILDREN, DOSES FOR: 

See Doses. 

CHILLS, BITTERS FOR: 

See "Wines and Liquors. 

CHINA CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives and Lutes. 

CHINA: 

See Ceramics. 

CHINA, TO REMOVE BURNED LET- 
TERS FROM: 
See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, under Miscellaneous Methods. 

CHINA REPAIRING: 

bee Porcelain,. 

CHINA RIVETING. 

Ct, " a riveting is best left to practical 
T n > but it tan be done with a drill made 
s P 1 [ i 1 llte F °f a diamond fixed on a 
srrvii i th * s 1S not 10 k e had, get a 
iff . ree - Co ™ered file, harden it by 

pS - g m the fire tiU red hot » and then 

th e if ?g » A in cold water - Next S rind 
atl £ 0l , nt on a grindstone and finish on 

Place t v Wlth the P ohlt P ick out the 

B^utiv f^% bored > takln s care to d .° 1 lt 

In a y i;A? r f ear of breaking the article, 
then i Wmle a P iece wiu break off, 
*°TkiT, i° le can eas ily be made by 
tv i_ e P° int round. The wire 
nen b e passed through and fas- 



179 

of finely powdered auinWi Se ' ° unce 
of egg "umcie^te ^V^'The 
less cem e n t applied the b?tt?r, usiZ | 

edge t0 SPfead i% ° Ver th * Sen 

CHLORIDES, PLATT'S: 

See Disinfectants. 

CHLORINE-PROOFING : 

See Acid- Proofing. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Prepare 1,000 parts of finished cacao 
and 30 parts of fresh cacao oil, in a 
warmed, polished, iron mortar, into a 
liquid substance, add to it 800 parts of 
finely powdered sugar, and, after a good 
consistency has been reached, 60 parts of 
powdered iron lactate and 60 parts of 
sugar syrup, finely rubbed together. 
Scent with 40 parts of vanilla sugar. Of 
this mass weigh out tablets o£ 125 parts 
into the molds. 

Coating Tablets with Chocolate. —If a 

chocolate which is free from sugar be 
placed in a dish over a water bath, it will 
melt into a fluid of proper consistenc 
for coating tablets. No water must be 
added. The coating is formed by dip- 
ping the tablets. When they are suffi 
ciently hardened they are laid on oded 
paper to dry. 

CHOCOLATE CASTOR - OIL LOZ 
ENGES : 
See Castor Oil. 

CHOCOLATE CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquor*. 

CHOCOLATE EXTRACTS: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

CHOCOLATE SODA WATER: 

See Beverages. 

CHOKING IN CATTLE: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 
CHOLERA REMEDIES: 
Sun Cholera Mixture.— 
Tincture of opium. 
Tincture of ™P?\ C ^ 
Tincture of rhubarb 
Spirit of camphor . . 
Spirit of peppermint 

Squibb's Diarrhea Mixture. 



1 part 
1 part 
1 part 
1 part 
1 paH 



40 parts 

Tincture QP^F; ■* 1 ' ; 40 parts 
Tincture capsicum.. 

Spirit camphor lfi parta 

Chloroform Q5 p ar ts 

Alcohol ' 



ISO 



CHOLERA REMEDIES—CIDER 



Aromatic Rhubarb. - - 

Cinnamon, ground . . 8 parts 

Rhubarb f 

Calumba * parts 

Saffron. \ V** 

Powdered opium. ... A parts 

Oil peppermint o parts 

XcoJmTq-s.ad.... 100 parts 
Macerate the ground drugs with 7o 
parts alcohol in a closely covered per- 
colator for several days, then allow per- 
colation to proceed, using sufficient al- 
cohol to obtain 95 parts of percolate. _ In 
percolate dissolve the oil of peppermint. 

Rhubarb and Camphor. — 

Tincture capsicum. . . 2 ounces 

Tincture opium 2 ounces 

Tincture camphor S ounces 

Tincture catechu 4 ounces 

Tincture rhubarb. ... 4 ounces 

Spirit peppermint bounces 

Blackberry Mixture. — 
Fluid extract black- 
berry root 2 pints 

Fluid ginger, soluble. 5| ounces 

Fluid catechu. ...... 5f ounces 

Fluid opium for tinc- 
ture 160 minims 

Brandy 8 ounces 

Sugar 4 pounds 

Essence cloves 256 minims 

Essence cinnamon . . 256 minims 

Chloroform 128 minims 

Alcohol (25 per cent), 

q. s. ad 1 gallon 

CHOWCHOW: 

See Condiments. 

CHROME YELLOW, TEST FOR: 

See Figments. 

CHROMIUM GLUE: 

See Adhesives. 



CHROMO MAKING. 

The production of chromo pictures 
requires a little skill. Practice is neces- 
sary. The glass plate to be used should 
be washed oft" with warm water, and then 

i m * a 10 per cent solut i° n of nitric 
acid. After one hour, wash with clean, 
cold water, dry with a towel, and polish 

■A P T*5 with sood ale ohol on the in- 
side—hollow side— until no finger marks 
or streaks are visible. This is best as- 
certained by breathing on the glass; the 
breath should show an even blue surface 
on the glass. 

„-.i C ° a .5 th « amounted Photograph to be 
colored with benzine by means of wad- 



ding, but without pressure so tl, * , 
retouching of the picture t . the 
turbed. Place 2 tabfis $ »° ■ ^ 
kitchen gelatin in 81 ounces of d\^u\ 
or pure ram water, soak for an hoi,; , 
then heat until the gelatin has d 
pletely dissolved. Pour this warm Sp" 
tion over the polished side of the 
so that the liquid is evenly distributed' 
The best way is to pour the solution £ 
the upper right-hand corner, allowing S 
to now into the left-hand corner f 
there to the left below and right 'below 
finally letting the superfluous hq^ 
run oil. lake the photograph, which 
has been previously slightly moistened 
on the back, lay_ it with the picture 
side on the gelatin- covered plate, cen- 
tering it nicely, and squeeze out the 
excess gelatin solution gently, prefer- 
ably by means of a rubber squeegee. 
Care must be taken, however, not to dis- 
place the picture In this manipulation as 
it is easily spoiled. 

The solution must never be allowed to 
boil, since this would render the gelatin 
brittle and would result in the picture, 
after having been finished, cracking off 
from the glass in a short time. When 
the picture has been attached to the glass 
plate without blisters (which is best ob- 
served from the back), the edge of the 
glass is cleansed of gelatin, preferably 
by means of a small sponge and luke- 
warm water, and the plate is allowed to 
dry over night. 

When the picture and the gelatin are 
perfectly dry, coat the back of the picture 
a few times with castor oil until it is per- 
fectly transparent; carefully remove the 
oil without rubbing, and proceed with 
the painting, which is best accomplished 
with good, not over-thick oil colors, the 
coloring must be observed from the glass 
side, and for this reason the small details, 
such as eyes, lips, beard, and oair, 
should first be sketched in. When tfie 
first coat is dry the dress and the aesu 
tints are painted. The whole surface 
may be painted over, and it is not iiew 
sary to paint shadows, as these area 
ready present in the picture, anu 
sequently show the color through 
varying strength. oD d 

When the coloring has dried, a* 
glass plate should be laid on tor pr 
tion, pasting the two edges togeuic 
narrow strips of linen. 

Cider . off 

To Make Cider.— Pick the aPPH^ 
the tree by hand. Every wf^ly 
going into the press should oe ^ 



■ 



CIDER 



181 



As soon as a charge of apples 
*iP ed ' /remove the pomace and put in 
feg r ° uS 'fh a false bottom and a strainer 
.askwiw j ^ vessel to catch the 
As fast as the 
place it 



» c&i %h "it, and a 
k ene 7?e from pomace 
ira] funs from the press , 
juice ™^ etf 0 pen tubs or casks with the 



clean- s we ® ' , DroV ide with a faucet, put 
**? nt tVo inches above bottom. The 
^should be closely watched and as 



i uice the least sign of fermentation ap- 
s0 ° n ^bubbles on top, etc.) it should be 
P ear Iff into casks prepared for this pur- 
«nd Placed in a moderately cool 
pose wwjj barre i 3 should be entirely 
SH' or as near to the bunghole as 
hie After fermentation is well 
P oS f w ' ay the spume or foam should be 

Craned off ^ h a s P 00n « ev f ral tlmes a 
j When fermentation has ceased 
the cider is racked off into clean casks, 
e n e d to the bunghole, and the bung 
driven in tightly. It is now ready for 
use or for bottling. 

Champagne Cider.— I —To convert or- 
dinary cider into champagne cider, pro- 
ceed as follows: To 100 gallons of good 
cider add 3 gallons of strained honey (or 
24 pounds of white sugar will answer), 
stir ia well, tightly bung, and let alone 
for a week. Clarify the cider by adding 
a half gallon of skimmed milk, or 4 oimces 
of gelatin dissolved in sufficient hot 
water and add 4 gallons of proof spirit. 
Let stand 3 days longer, then syphon off, 
bottle, cork, and tie or wire down. 
Bunging the cask tightly is done in order 
to induce a slow fermentation, and thus 
retain in the cider as much carbonic acid 
as possible. 

H.-pPut 10 gallons of old and clean 
ttaer in a strong and iron-bound cask, 
Pitched within (a sound beer cask is the 
« r y thing), and add and stir in well 40 

faces of simple syrup. Add 5 ounces 
o ' tartaric acid, let dissolve, then add 71 
Hav^tu bicarbonate in powder. 

th e 15 ■ n £ read y and the moment 

home s tI ^ Cd pUt ifc in and drive lt 
in a f ew ^ e c ider will be ready for use 



of 15 5 ^eservative.— I._The addition 
fc^ons 3 ln - j° f uismutn subnitrate to 22 
Iet aids +K C l P rev ents, or materially 
ft po»ui** ha . rd ening of the beverage on 
^tendp a i lr; mor eover, the bismuth 
Co ^plete alconoli c fermentation more 

SHs^ 1 ^, 1 * 1 ^Iphite (sulphite of 
h Uo a in S$ ely U3ed to prevent fermen- 

sulS* ■ About * to * of an ounce 
l V I? u \ 8 squired for 1 gallon of 
« should first be dissolved in a 




t\TU u , a ^ t ttt,' then added * 

thoroughly rrTixed Th until 
then b fbin™d l and should 
several day^lSth^SS^^ S 
phite is exerted. It will If he 
sweetness of cider per ect fv th * 
should be taken not fo add too mncl^ 
hat would xmpart a slight sulphu rou 



taste 

Artificial Ciders.-To 25 gallon, of 

pr ft add J 2 P ° c Unds of ta r*aric acid 

25 or 30 pounds of sugar, and a pint of 
yeast; put m a warm place, and let fer- 
ment for 15 days, then add the flavoring 
matter to snit taste. The various fruit 
ethers are for sale at any wholesale drug 
house. 

Bottling Sweet Cider.— Champagne 
quarts are generally used for bottling 
cider, as they are strong and will stanc 
pressure, besides being a convenient 
size for consumers. In making cider 
champagne the liquor should be clari- 
fied and bottled in the sweet condition, 
that is to say, before the greater part of 
the sugar which it contains has been 
converted into alcohol by fermentation. 
The fermentation continues, to a certain 
extent, in the bottle, transforming more 
of the sugar into alcohol, and the car- 
bonic acid, being unable to escape, is 
dissolved in the cider and produces the 
sparkling. „ 

The greater the quantity of sugar 
contained in the liquor, when it is bot- 
tled, the more complete is its carbona- 
tion by the carbonic-acid gas,, and con- 
sequently the more sparkling it is when 
poured out. But this is true only within 
certain limits, for if the production 
sugar is too high the fermentation wi 

be arrested. *j„„ 
To make the most sparkling ad er 
liquor is allowed to stand for. three .ft™. 
& or six weeks, 

^rttOTSaSonisusnall, 

completed in V days. „ t 

Before bottling, j£™f th 
fined, and thiBW W done^w ^ rf q 

This is well 



' A nc\er 2 ounces of cate 

dissolved m cold cicier, , * . g wel 

chu to the barrel of «der few d&JS 
stirred and left to settle ir sweetf 
The cider at this ;»«J derable nicety 
and it is a pomt °V?° fermenta tion too 
not to carry the ^ t be qU ite 
far. The bottle | freedom foI 

filled, so as t^'^^hich forma. 
thecarbonic-ac d g a ^ been filled. 
When the uotues 



orked, and wired down, they should be 
Led in a good cellar, which shou Id be 
rv or else the cider will taste of the 
ork The bottles should not be laid 
or four or five weeks, or breakage will 
nsue. When they are being laid they 
ould be placed on laths of wood or on 
-y sand; they should never be allowed 
cold or damp floors. 
Should the cider be relatively poor in 
ugar, or if it has been fermented too far, 
bout 1 ounce of powdered loaf sugar 
n be added to each bottle, or else a 
easure of sugar syrup before pouring 
the cider. 

Imitation Cider. — 

I. A formula for an imitation cider is 

s follows: 

Rain water 100 gallons 

Honey, unstrained . . 6 gallons 
Catechu, powdered. 3 ounces 

Alum, powdered 5 ounces 

Yeast (brewer's pref- 
erably) ! . . 2 pints 

Mix and put in a warm place to fer- 
ent. Let ferment for about 15 days; 
en add the following, stirring well in: 

Bitter almonds, crushed 8 ounces 
Cloves 8 ounces 

Let stand 24 hours, add two or three 
gallons of good whiskey, and rack off into 
clean casks. Bung tightly, let stand 48 
hours, then bottle. If a higher color is 
desired use caramel sufficient to pro- 
duce the correct tinge. If honey is not 
obtainable, use sugar-house molasses 
instead, but honey is preferable. 

II. — The following, when properly 
prepared, makes a passable substitute 
for cider, and a very pleasant drink: 

Catechu, powdered. 3 parts 
Alum, powdered .... 5 parts 

Honey 640 parts 

Water 12,800 parts 

Yeast 3g par t s 

Dissolve the catechu, alum, and honey 
m the water, add the yeast, and put in 
some warm place to ferment. The con- 
tainer should be filled to the square open- 
ing, made by sawing out five or six inches 
of the center of a stave, and the spume 
skimmed off daily as it arises. In cooler 
weather from 2 weeks to 18 days will be 
required for thorough fermentation. In 
warmer weather from 12 to 13 days will 
be sufficient. When fermentation is com- 
plete add the following solution: 

Oil of bitter almonds 1 part 
Oil of clover i J art 

Y?™* 1 ? 32 parts 

Akohol 192 parts 



The alcohol may be r ep l aced by , . 
its volume of good bourbon whisk Ce 
much cheaper but corresponding A 
substitute tor the above mav y P°°r 
follows: ^ De ma<I eas 

Twenty-five gallons of soft w at 
pounds tartaric acid, 25 pounds of h 2 
sugar, and 1 pint of yeast are alwlT? 
stand in a warm place, in a clean , i 
with the bung out, for U hours >ffc 
bung up the cask, after adding 3 « a ii„ 11 
of whiskey, and let stand for 48 h 0 
after which the liquor is ready for use^' 
CIDER VINEGAR: 

See Vinegar. 

Cigars 

Cigar Sizes and Colors.— Cigars are 
named according to their color and 
shape- A dead-black cigar, for instance 
is an "Oscuro," a very dark-brown one 
is a "Colorado," a medium brown is a 
"Colorado Claro," and a yellowish light 
brown is a "Claro." Most smoker 
know the names of the shades from 
"Claro" to "Colorado," and that is as 
far as m ost of them need to know. As to 
the shapes, a "Napoleon" is the bigge 
of all cigars — being 7 inches long; a"Pcr- 
fecto" swells in the middle and tapers 
down to a very small head at the lighting 
end; a "Panatela" is a thin, straight, up- 
and-down cigar without the graceH 
curve of the "Perfecto"; a "Conchas" ± 
very short and fat, and a "LonuW 
shaped like a "Perfecto" except that l 
does not taper to so small a head at to 
lighting end. A "Reina Victoria' is 
"Londres" that comes packed in a rib- 
bon-tied bundle of 50 pieces, instead ol 
in the usual four layers of 13, 12, 13 and 
12. 

How to Keep Cigars.— Cigars kepi ; m 
a case are influenced every time the cw 
is opened. Whatever of taint there m». 
be in the atmosphere rushes into 
case, and is finally taken up by the og»» 
Even though the cigars have the a P pe , 
ance of freshness, it is not the °"£ ved 
freshness in which they were r 
from the factory. They have bee ^ rbe "d 
or comparatively so, and have a ^ ^ 
more moisture than has been m 
case, and it matters not what m* tbe 
ture may be, it can never rew u j 
flavor that was lost during the dr}iws 
process. . i gimpl? 

After all, it is a comparatively A jj 
matter to take good care ot cig ; ftir . 
that is necessary is a coBQPftrau* Jd fae 
tight, zinc-lined chest. TW &° al 




CIGARS— CLARET PUNCH 



, xu P counter in a place where the 
behii» d we wliea cU g t0 mer 

temPf at „ c i <Ta r the dealer takes the box 
^ chest, serves his customer, and 
out of t«J e he box back again. The box 
t hen pU ,Vned for a moment the cigars are 
be i1,erceptibly affected. The cigars in 
to l R er F [ icav y chest are always safe 
f m Sospberic influences, as the boxes 
fr0 i Td and the chest is open but a 
are close ^^.^ dealer i s taking out a 

Sroffl which to serve his customer. 
b0 g 0 7e of the best dealers have either a 
l^t or a cool vault in which they 
K^S stock, taking out from time to 
C whatever they need for use. Some 
f 3 7 e a number of small chests, in which 
t) pv keep different brands, so as to avoid 
opening and closing one particular chest 

80 if may be said that it is only the high- 
er priced cigars that need special care in 
handling, although thc cheaper grades 
are not to be handled carelessly. The 
Havana cigars are more susceptible to 
change, for there is a delicacy of flavor to 
be preserved that is never present in thc 
cheaper grades of cigars. 

Every dealer must, of course, make a 
display in his show case, buL he need not 
serve his patrons with these cigars. The 
shrinkage in value of the cigars in the 
case is merely a business proposition of 
profit and loss. 

Cigar Flavoring. — I. — Macerate 2 
ounces of cinnamon and 4 ounces of 
tonka beans, ground fine, in 1 quart of 
mm. 

H. Moisten ordinary cigars with a 
gjttg tincture of cascarilla, to which a 
ad l / U1 ? benzoin an d storax may be 
titvf c P ersons a dd a small quan- 

? of camphor or oil of cloves or cassia. 

lit 

■"-Tincture of valerian. 4 drachms 

(Jutync aldehyde ... 4 drachms 

Citrous ether 1 drachm 

jpeture vanilla % drachms 

^ c ? ho1 5 ounces 

rv ater enough to 

jy make 16 ounces 

'~~A? a L Ct , variilla 4 ounces 

j! Coh .°l \ gallon 

^aicarum gallon 

^cture valerian... 8 ounces 

EaSS y T^ 2 ounces 
Bin Va lenan root 2 ounces 

Tot,? °i an 8 e Peel.. . 2 ounces 
Myrrh 9 4 drachms 

So a k 16 ounces 

? £ ivatej. J?P r } x 3 days in 6 quarts 
na *> Vm? the al cohol, tincture va- 
; extract of vanilla, and after 



183 

grinding the other ingredient* t 
powder, put all toHer ° * COar8e 

ilia bark and li 



t ounces of cascar 
aces c 

carefully close up the flask 



ounces of vanilU ^ Q 
™*£lF3 Und ^h I pound or V 



and distil in a 



liquid and add J pint of^naS 
The finished cigars are moistened with 
this liquid, packed m boxes, and ore- 
served from air by a well-dosed lid. 
1 ney are said to acquire a pleasant flavor 
and mild strength through this treat- 
ment. 

Cigar Spots.— The speckled appear- 
ance of certain wrappers is due to the 
work of a species of fungus that attacks 
the growing tobacco. In a certain dis- 
trictof Sumalra, which produces an ex- 
ceptionally fine tobacco for wrappers, 
the leaves of the plant are commonly 
speckled in this way. Several patents 
have been obtained for methods of spot- 
ting tobacco leaves artificially. A St. 
Louis firm uses a solution composed of: 

Sodium carbonate 3 parts 

Calx chlorinata 1 part 

Hot water 8 parts 

Dissolve the washing soda in the hot 
water, add the chlorinated lime, and 
heat the mixture to a boiling tempera- 
ture for 3 minutes. When cool, decant 
into earthenware or stoneware jugs, cork 
tightly, and keep in a cool place, lne 
corks of jugs not intended for immediate 
use should be covered with a piece ot 
bladder or strong parchment paper, ana 
tightly tied down to prevent the escape ot 
gf s , and consequent weakemng of the 
bleaching power of the fluid. The pre- 
paredTqlo"is sprinkled on tha tobacco, 



the latter b 
air, when 



d 
or 



TeingtU exposed to light an 

..... .JJislud, the disagreeable odo 

produced soon disappears. 

CINCHONA : 

See Wines and Liquors. 



CINNAMON ESSENCE: 

See E r Til as S Aseptic: 

CINNAMON OIL Ab a« 

See Antiseptics. 
CITRATE OF.MAGWSmM: 

CLARET LEMONADE A«J> CLARE 
PUWCH: ^ under Lemons- 



184. 



CLARIFYING— CLEANING PREPARATIONS 



ARIFICATION OF GELATIN" AND 

GLUE: 
See Gelatin. 

LARIFY1NG. 

Clarification is the process by which 
any solid particles suspended in a liquid 
1™ either caused to coalesce together or 
?o adhere to the medium used fordar- 
ifving that they may be removed bv fil- 
& (which 7 would P«™^J^ 
been impossible), so as to render tnc 

^Oae'ofThe best agents for this purpose 
is albumen. When clarifying vegetable 
extracts, the albumen which w naturally 
present in most plants accomplishes this 
purpose easily, provided the vegetable 
matter is extracted in the cold so as to 
get as much albumen as possible in solu- 

tl(> Egg albumen may also be used. The 
effect of albumen may be increased by 
the addition of cellulose, in the form ot a 
fine magma of filtering paper. This has 
the further advantage that the subse- 
quent filtration is much facilitated. 

Suspended particles of gum or pectin 
may be removed by cautious precipita- 
tion with tannin, of which only an ex- 
ceedingly small amount is usually neces- 
sary. It combines with the gelatinous 
substances better with the aid of heat 
than in the cold. There must be no ex- 
cess of tannin used. 

Another method of clarifying liquids 
turbid from particles of gum, albumen, 
pectin, etc., is to add to them a definite 
quantity of alcohol. This causes the 
former substances to separate in more or 
less large flakes. The quantity of alco- 
hol required varies greatly according to 
the nature of the liquid. It should be 
determined in each case by an experiment 
on a small scale. 

Resinous or waxy substances, such as 
are occasionally met with in honey, etc., 
may be removed by the addition of bole, 
pulped filtering paper, and heating to 
boiling. 

In each case the clarifying process 
may be hastened by making the separat- 
ing particles specifically heavier; that is, 
by incorporating some heavier sub- 
stance, such as talcum, etc., which may 
cause the flocculi to sink more rapidly, 
and to form a compact sediment. 

Clarifying powder for alcoholic liquids: 

Egg albumen, dry 40 parts 

Sugar of milk 40 parts 

Starch go parts 

Reduce them to very fine powder, and 
mix thoroughly. 



For clarifying liquors, brines, e SSpn 
etc., take for every quar t of ^ 
grains of the above mixture shaW 75 
peatedly in the course of a f e ' w d *J ^ 
mixture being kept in a warm YooT 
then filter. 1 «om, 

Powdered talcum renders the 
service, and has the additional adv^ 
tage of being entirely insoluble ul a ~ 
ever, the above mixture acts more en?/ 
gctically. 

CLAY: 

Claying Mixture for For ges ._ Tweilt 
parts fire clay; 20 parts cast-iron turn 
mgs; 1 part common salt; \ part sal am- 
moniac; all by measure. 

The materials should be thoroughly 
mixed dry and then wet down to the con- 
sistency of common mortar, constantly 
stirring the mass as the wetting proceeds 
A rough mold shaped to fit the tuyere 
opemDg, a trowel, and a few minutes 
time are all that are needed to complet 
the successful claying of the forge. T" 
mixture dries hard and when glazed b 
the fire will last. 

Plastic Modeling Clay. — A perm 
nently plastic clay can be obtained by 
first mixing it with glycerine, turpen- 
tine, or similar bodies, and then adding 
vaseline or petroleum residues rich in 
vaseline. The proportion of clay to the 
vaseline varies according to the desired 
consistency of the product, the admix- 
ture of vaseline varying from 10 to 50 
per cent. It is obvious that the hardness 
of the material decreases with the 
amount of vaseline added, so that the one 
richest in vaseline will be the softest. W 
the use of various varieties of clay ana 
the suitable choice of admixtures, tne 
plasticity, as well as the color of the mass, 
may be varied. 

Cleaning Preparations and 
Methods 

(See also Soaps, Polishes, and Douse- 
hold Formulas). R g 
TO REMOVE STAINS FROM 
HANDS : . fr0l0 

Removal of Aniline-Dye Stags j| 
the Skin.— Rub the stained wo ^ 
a pinch of slightly moistenea 
tals of chromic trioxide 1111111 t jj e de- 
sensation of warmth anno u . n ? x ida tio 
struction of the dye stutt t>> . ^ 
and an incipient irritation oi ^ sJ a 
Then rinse with soap and waw • 
gle application usually suffices 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



It is hardly necessary to call 
the st ^ l0 ' t0 the poisonousness and strong 
•^■action of chromic tri oxide; but 
03 oderate caution is required to 
$d U effects. 
PvrofalHc-Acid Steins on the Fingers 
y i n Photography). — Pyro stuns may 

W P wool fat before beginning work. A 
, effective way or eliminating devel- 
Ver "r stains is to dip the finger tips occa- 
°' P «dlv during development into the 
d aring bath. It i-s best to use the 
tearing bath, with ample friction, be- 
f e resorting to soap, as the latter seems 
to have a fixing effect upon the stain. 
Lemon peel is useful for removing pyro 
stains, and so are the ammonium per- 
sulphate reducer and the thiocarbamide 
clearer. 

Xo Clean Very Soiled Hands. — In the 
morning wash in warm water, using a 
stiff brush, and apply glycerine. _ Re- 
peat the application two or three times 
during the day, washing and brushing an 
hour or so afterwards, or apply a warm 
solution of soda or potash, and wash in 
warm water, using a stiff brush as before. 
Finally, rub the hands with pumice or 
infusorial earth. There arc soaps made 
especially for this purpose, similar to 
ttose for use on woodwork, etc., in 
which infusorial earth or similar matter 
is incorporated. 

To Remove Nitric-Acid Stains.— One 
plan to avoid stains is to use rubber 
anger stalls, or rubber gloves. Nitric- 
jad stains can be removed from the 
tin f 7 P aintin S the stains with a solu- 
Z\- P e n rm an g anate of potash, and 
waging ofl thc permanganate with a 5 

& ?-/ olu £ onojE ^drochloric (muri- 
m acid. After this wash the hands 

4Sr st ^ so ? p - An ^ Soa P that 

all \iZ the ,, skm should be avoided at 

keen ti?!* , >astde soap is the best to 
T Ptae S km m good CGndition< 

^Umm GILDED ARTICLES: 

fa ^s gIII Fram es and Gilded Sur- 

alc °holtowi a -r^ Di P a soft brush in 

ammonia 

° Ver the L,f Qn ad ^ 9d ' and With it go 
\ ot r «ueh v CC \ Do not mb-at least, 
,f five mini,; ° r i lars hly. In the course 

1t k > ^d ea^v % he dirt wiU have bet;oine 
Qe ?urf ace n ■ removal - Then go over 

same or 

Uv fuTH sh dipped in rain water. 
*> dry/ Tf .P am P article in the sunlight 
Bft * "ariT^ 13 no flight, placi it 
F^ceiy. i n or der to avoid 



185 

streaks, take care that «, 
condition, with water, 



-Fire -gilt 



articles are cleaned, accord,, 
condition, with water^dife *? 9* 
chloric acid, ammrvmc " lluted hydro- 
iion. If h^rSrie acid 
thorough dilution with water £ USS? 3 ^ 
necessary. The acidity sWM^ 01 ^ 7 
be noticeable on the tongue M 

To clean gilt articles, such a < ™U 
moldings, etc., when they K e £ 
tarnished or covered with fly S p ecks , eS 
rub them s owly with an onion cut in half 
and dipped m rectified alcohol, and wash 
off lightly with a mmst soft sponge after 
about 2 hours. 

Cleaning Gilded and Polychromed 

Work on Altars.— To clean bright gold 
a fine little sponge is used which is 
moistened but lightly with tartaric acid 
and passed over the gilding. Next go 
over the gilt work with a small sponge 
saturated with alcohol to remove all dirt. 
For matt gilding, use only a white flannel 
dipped in lye, and carefully wipe off the 
dead gold with this, drying next with a 
fine linen rag. To clean polyehromed 
work sponge with a lye of rain water, 
1,000 parts, and calcined potash, (P 
parts, and immediately wash off with „ 
clean sponge and water, so that the lye 
does not attack the paint too much. 

SPOT AND STAIN REMOVERS: 
To Remove Aniline Stains. — 

I.— Sodium nitrate 7 grains 

Diluted sulphuric acid 15 grains 

Water 1 ounce 

Let the mixture stand a day or two 
before using. Apply to the spot with a 
sponge, and rinse the goods with plenty 

of water. , . 

An excellent medium lor trie re- 

often 



II. 



moval of aniline stains, which we often 
very stubborn, has been found to be 
liquid opodeldoc^Af** ito thj 



13 



After 

stains are said to disappear at once a 
entirely. 

Cleansing Fluids.-A spot remover 
made as follows: 

' „ 7 parts 

Saponine £ arts 

Water - • 70 parts 

Alcohol i 7SS parts 

Sffiba**:::::: 

II._Ben Z ene (ben Z ol).. 8 P-g 
Ascetic ether I 

Th^ds'an effective grease eradi- 
cator, of an agreeable 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



186 

in —To Remove Stains of Sulphate of 
copper, or of salts of mercury, silver or 
ffofd from the hands, etc., wash them first 
with a dilute solution either of ammonia, 
tod de, bromide, or cyanide of potasMum, 

stains are old ones they should first be 
rubbed with the strongest acetic add 
and then treated as above. 

Removal of Picric-Acid Stains.— I.— 
Recent stains of picric, acid may be re- 
moved readily if the stain is covered with 
a layer of magnesium carbonate, the car- 
bonate moistened with a httle water to 
form a paste, and the paste then rubbed 
over the spot. # 
jX —Apply a solution of 

Boric acid 4 parts 

Sodium benzoate. . .. 1 part 

Water 1°° P arts 

HI _Dr. Frieiir, of Besancon, recom- 
mends lithium carbonate for the removal 
of picric-acid stains from the skin or 
from linen. The method of using it is 
simply to lay a small pinch on the stain 
and moisten the latter with water. 1 resh 
stains disappear almost instantly, and 
old ones in a minute or two. 

To Remove Finger Marks from Books, 
etc. — I. — Pour benzol (not benzine or 
gasoline, but Merck's "c. p." crystalliz- 
able) on calcined magnesia until it be- 
comes a crumbling mass, and apply this 
to the spot, rubbing it in lightly, with the 
tip of the finger. When the benzol 
evaporates, brush off. Any dirt that re- 
mains can be removed by using a piece 
of soft rubber. 

II. — If the foregoing fails (which it 
sometimes, though rarely, does), try the 
following: Make a hot solution of sodium 
hydrate in distilled water, of strength of 
from 3 per cent to 5 per cent, according 
to the age, etc., of the stain. Have pre- 
pared some bits of heavy blotting paper 
somewhat larger than the spot to be re- 
moved; also, a blotting pad, or several 
pieces of heavy blotting paper. Lay the 
soiled page face downward on the blot- 
ting pad, then, saturating one of the bits 
of blotter with the hot sodium hydrate 
solution, put it on the stain and go over 
it with a hot smoothing iron. If one ap- 
plication does not remove all the grease 
or stain, repeat the operation. Then 
saturate another bit of blotting paper with 
a 4 per cent or 5 per cent solution of hy- 
drochloric acid in distilled water, apply 
it to the place, and pass the iron over it 
to neutralize the strong alkali. This process 
will instantly restore any faded writing 
or printing, and make the paper bright 
and fresh again. 



Glycerine as a Detergent.— For Ce r 

tain kinds of obstinate spots (such 
coffee and chocolate, for instance) therp 
is no better detergent than glycerine 
especially for fabrics with delicate colors' 
Apply the glycerine to the spot, with » 
sponge or otherwise, let stand a miu- 
ute or so, then wash off with water or 
alcohol. Hot glycerine is even more 
efficient than cold. 

CLEANING SKINS AND LEATHER: 

See also Leather. 

To Clean Colored Leather. — P our car- 
bon bisulphide on non-vulcanized gutta- 

Eercha, and allow it to stand about 24. 
ours. After shaking actively add more 
gutta-percha gradually until the sohition 
becomes of gelatinous consistency, 
This mixture is applied in suitable quan- 
tity to oil-stained, colored leather and 
allowed to dry two or three hours. The 
subsequent operation consists merely in 
removing the coat of gutta-percha from 
the surface of the leather — that is, Tub- 
bing it with the fingers, and rolling it off 
the surface. 

The color is not injured in the least by 
the sulphuret of carbon; only those 
leathers on which a dressing containing 
starch has been used look a little lighter 
in color, but the better class of leathers 
are not so dressed. The dry gutta-per- 
cha can be redissolved in sulphuret of 
carbon and used over again. 

To Clean Skins Used for Polishing 
Purposes.— First beat them thoroughly 
to get rid of dust, then go over the surface 
on both sides with a piece of good white 
soap and lay them m warm water in 
which has been put a little soda, JWS 
them lie here for 2 hours, then wash them 
in plenty of tepid water, rubbing taem 
vigorously until perfectly clean Lm 
bath should also be made alkaline ,m £ 
soda. The skins are finally "n^djj 
warm water, and dried R" 10 * of the 
water must be avoided at all sta *f v t0 
cleansing process, as it has a tenaeu j 
shrink and harden the skins. ^ 

The best way to clean * cha ™° V a t e r 
is to wash and rinse it out J f . cle ^ ctice is 
immediately after use, but thispra ^ 
apt to be neglected so that the sh ■ 
comes saturated with dirt ana b .J 
To clean it, first thorough l> s ° in g 
clean, soft water. Then, alter ^ 
it and rolling it into a compact** kft 



mm u aman ium — — T epea LC y 

say— turning the wad °f r fln / so ape d ; 
and keeping it well wet ana d | 
This should suffice to loosen t ^ 
Then rinse in clean water unm 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



187 



1BJ 1 

use 



, WD. As wringing by hand is apt to 
is 9 ie t u e chamois skin, it is advisable to 
lUT sinaJt clothes wringer. Before 
%u e s kin again rinse-it in clear water 
^hich a little pulverized alum has 
added. 



to * l 
been 



CTRAW-HAT RENOVATION: 

T Renovate Straw Hats. — I. — Hats 
A° P of natural (uncolored) straw, which 
w .become soiled by wear, may be 
1 ned bv thoroughly sponging with a 
t solution of tartaric acid in water, 
WC owed by water alone. The hat after 



felnsT so treated should be fastened by 
' " to a board by means of pins. 



so 



that it will keep, its shape in. drying. 



the nni 

jj.Usponge the straw with a solution of 

By weight 
Sodium hyposulphite. 10 parts 

Glycerine" 5 parts 

Alcohol 10 parts 

Water 75 parts 

Lay aside in a damp place for 24 hours 
and then apply 

By weight 

Citric acid 3 parts 

Alcohol 10 parts 

Water 90 parts 

Press with a moderately hot iron, after 
stiffening with weak gum water, if neces- 
sary. 

Ill — If the hat has become much dark- 
ened in tint by wear the fumes of burning 
sulphur may be employed. The material 
should be first cleaned by thoroughly 
sponging with an aqueous solution of 
potassium carbonate, followed by a sim- 
ilar application of water, and it is then 
Expended over the sulphur fumes, 
laesc are generated by placing in a metal 
W earthen dish, so mounted as to keep the 
beat from setting fire to anything beneath, 
S0I ? e brimstone (roll sulphur), and 
sprinkling over it some live coals to start 
combustion. The operation is con- 

of burn -11 ^ b ° X ° r barrel ' the dish 
Wtora, 

acr!I g s ^P ende( l from a string stretched 
hahM top ' A cover not fit ting so 
H anH*?^ 0 exclude a11 ai r is placed over 
foV J* , apparatus allowed to stand 
r H a *e* hours. 

fen e ^i SO treated will require to be Stif- 
\r ater Dy the application, of a little gum 
totiTo* ,P reS3e d on a block with a 
on to bring them back into shape. 

-If a * er proof Stiffening for Straw Hats. 
orJ*" 1 * er ,P rooE stiffening is required 
L, a j J* th e varnishes for which for- 



W Urnm " sul Phur being placed at the 
"itora, and the article to be bleached 



. Venice turpentine I 

Aicohoi..;;;;;;; B0 S 

n '"q?Si! 500 parts 

^ a *? ara t c 175 parts 

Venice turpentine 50 parts 

r, ast ? r r 1 15 parts 
Alcohol. .. 2,000 parts 

— Shellac. 750 parts 

g 0S1 . n 150 parts 

Venice turpentine 150 parts 

Castor oil go parts 

Alcohol 2,500 parts 

How to Clean a Panama Hat. — Seru 
with castile soap and warm water, 
nail brush being used as an aid to ge 
the dirt away. The hat is then placed in 
the hot sun to dry and in the course of 
two or three hours is ready for use. It 
will not only be as clean as when new, 
but it will retain its shape admirably. 
The cleaned hat will be a trifle stiff at 
first, but will soon grow supple under 
wear. , 

A little glycerine added to the rinsing 
water entirely prevents the stiffness and 
brittleness acquired by some hats in dry- 
ing, while a little ammonia in the wash- 
ing water materially assists in the scrub- 
bing process. Ivory, or, in fact, any 
good white soap, will answer as well as 
castile for the purpose. It is well to 
rinse a second time, adding the glycerine 
to the water used the second time. Im- 
merse the hat completely in the rinse 
water, moving it about to get rid of 
traces of the dirtv water. When the hat 
has been thoroughly rinsed, press out the 
surplus water, using a Turkish bath towel 
for the purpose, and let it rest on the 
towel when drying. 

PAINT, VARNISH, AND ENAMEL RE- 
MOVERS: . . 
To Remove Old Oil, Paint, or Varnish 
Coats.-I.-Apply a mixture oflpg 
28 per cent ammonia water, 86 , parts 
f fi o narts 0 f 40 per cent soda lye- 
The compos£i°n dissolves fh. old nag 
rnat as well as the paint, down to the 
The varnish , ». jUjg * * » 
to be removed may be brusnea o 

for days to . iXTttt^ JKS 
ing thoroughly moistcnea ^ ^ 
old varnish may he jeaony 
the lacquer as well as th =oripa 

not the paint. 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



JI Apply a mixture of 1 part oil of 

turpentine and 2 parts of ammonia. 
This is effective, even if the coatings 
withstand the strongest lye. The two 
liquids are shaken in a bottle until tUey 
mix like milk. The mixture is applied 
to the coating with a little oakum; after a 
few minutes the old paint can be wiped 
off. 

To Clean Brushes and Vessels of pry 
Paint (see also Brushes and Paints).— 
The cleaning of the brushes and ves- 
sels in which the varnish or oil paint had 
dried is usually done by boiling with 
soda solution. This frequently spoils the 
brushes or cracks the vessels if of glass; 
besides, the process is rather slow and 
dirty. A much more suitable remedy is 
amyl acetate, which is a liquid with a 
pleasant odor of fruit drops, used mainly 
for dissolving and cementing celluloid. 
If amyl acetate is poured over a paint 
brush the varnish or hardened paint dis- 
solves almost immediately and the brush 
is again rendered serviceable at once. If 
necessary, the process is repeated. For 
cleaning vessels shake the liquid about in 
them, which softens the paint so that it 
can be readily removed with paper. In 
this manner much labor can be saved. 
The amyl acetate can be easily removed 
from the brushes, etc., by alcohol or oil 
of turpentine. 

Varnish and Paint Remover, — Dis- 
solve 20 parLs of caustic soda (98 per 
cent) in 100 parts of water, mix the solu- 
tion with 20 parts of mineral oil, and stir 
in a kettle provided with a mechanical 
stirrer, until the emulsion is complete. 
Now add, with stirring, 20 parts of saw- 
dust and pass the whole through a paint 
mill to obtain a uniform intermixture. 
Apply the paste moist. 

To Remove Varnish from Metal. — To 
remove old varnish from metals, it suf- 
fices to dip the articles in equal parts of 
ammonia and alcohol (95 per cent). 

To Remove Water Stains from Var- 
nished Furniture. — Pour olive oil into a 
dish and scrape a little white wax into it. 
This mixture should be heated until 
the wax melts and rubbed sparingly on 
the stains. Finally, rub the surface with 
a linen rag until it is restored to bril- 
liancy, 

To Remove Paint, Varnish, etc., from 
Wood.— Varnish, paint, etc., no matter 
how old and hard, may be softened in a 
few minutes so that they can be easily 
scraped off, by applying the following 
mixture: 



Water glass 5 parK 

Soda lye, 40° B. (27 

percent). } t 

Ammonia water 1 part 

Mix. 

Removing Varnish, etc. — A 
has been taken out in England W 
liquid for removing varnish, lacquer t a E 
and paint. The composition is made h' 
mixing 4 ounces of benzol, 3 ounces I 
fusel oil, and 1 ounce of alcohol, It 
stated by the inventor that this mixture 
if applied to a painted or varnished sur- 
face, will make the surface quite clean in 
less than 10 minutes, and that a paint- 
soaked brush "as hard as iron" can be 
made as soft and pliable as new by 
simply soaking for an hour or so in the 
mixture. 

To Remove Enamel and Tin Solder.— 
Pour enough of oil of vitriol (concen- 
trated .sulphuric acid) over powdered 
fluorspar in an earthen or lead vessel, so 
as just to cover the parts whereby hydro- 
fluoric acid is generated. For use, dip 
the article suspended ou a wire into the 
liquid until the enamel or the tin is eaten 
away or dissolved, which does not injure 
the articles in any way. If heated, the 
liquid acts more rapidly. The work 
should always be conducted in the open 
air, and care should be taken not to in- 
hale the fumes, which are highly inju- 
rious to the health, and not to get any 
liquid on the skin, as hydrofluoric acid 
is one of the most dangerous poisons. 
Hydrofluoric acid must be kept in earth- 
en or leaden vessels, as it destroys glass. 

Removing Paint and Varnish from 
Wood. The following compound is 
given as one which will clean paint or 
varnish from wood or stone without in- 
juring the material: 

Flour or wood pulp. . 3S5 parts 
Hydrochloric acid... 4.50 parts 
Bleaching powder.. . 160 parts 

Turpentine 5 parts 

This mixture is applied to the surface 
and left on for some time. It w m 
brushed off, and brings the paint *m 
with it. It keeps moist quite long enm* 
to be easily removed after it has ac 

Paste for Removing Old Paint o 
Varnish Coats. — 

I. — Sodium hvdrate 5 P a * 

Soluble soda glass ... * P»*g 

gour parte.." |P£g 

Water ¥ . 

II. -Soap..... 1JP«J2 

Potassium hydrate. . - ? P ^ 
Potassium silicate. ... * P 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



„, -Remove Old Enamel.— Lay the 

Tl a horizontally in a vessel contain- 
» rtlC Scentrated solution of alum and 
ing a . c The solution should be just 
boJ V ieI f fo cover the pieces. In 20 or 
suffix *° tb e old enamel will fall into 
# ioi ULl , TL the ar Ucle can be polished with 
<hist,anu narr0W anc J Jeep vessels are 
^d^tbe operation will require more 
time. 

m ERADICATORS: 
Two _Solution Ink Remover.— 

T — &) Citric acid ... 1 part 

Concentrated solu- 
tion of borax ... 2 parts 

Distilled water 16 parts 

Dissolve the acid in the water, add the 
borax solution, and mix by agitation. 
(b) Chloride of lime ... 3 parts 

Water 16 parts 

Concentrated bor- 
as solution 2 parts 

Add tlie chloride of lime to the water, 
ghake well and set aside for a week, then 
decant the clear liquid and to it add the 
borax solution. 

For use, saturate the spot with solu- 
tion (a), apply a blotter to take off the ex- 
cess of liquid, then apply solution (b). 
When the stain has disappeared, apply 
the blotter and wet the spot with clean 
water; finally dry between two sheets of 
blotting paper. 

II.— (a) Mix, in equal parts, potassium 
chloride, potassium hypochlorite, and oil 
of peppermint, (b) Sodium chloride, 
hydrochloric acid and water, in equal 
parts. 

Wet the spot with (a), let dry, then 
brush it over lightly with (b), and rinse in 
clear water. 
A good single mixture which will am 
wer for most inks is made by mixing 
«Mc acid and alum in equal parts. If 

Mill to Vend in a lic l uid form add an 
4uai part of water. In use, the powder 

dX Wel1 over tne s P ot and ( if on 
wii a? * oven ^brics) well rubbed in 
aro «, fin S ers - A few drops of water 
final !' n * ded ' and also ™bbed in. A 
p roce ^ nsLn g vnth. water completes the 

^S?a^? SerS, ~ _ - I "~ Illks made witn nui> 
ising a Co j?P eras can be removed by 
tion o« mo .?erately concentrated solu- 
Pure L a °^ hc a cid, followed by use of 
clean Ki ;!' and Sequent drying with 
mk a a :i° 0 ttm g Paper. Most other black 
o£ chW;"\ Sed b y use of a weak solution 
lCe ticaS i d i lime ' followed by dilute 
u and water, with frequent dry- 



189 

ing with blotters. Mnloni.;* 
is bleached by hlt \ greei1 ink 

inks by potwSiu" ^SSdHf J ^ Ver 
hyposulphite. Someanit sodium 

-^^ovedb;3: o hotatd C n^ v l 
by chlorinated lime, followed by dimted 
acetic acid or vinegar In Xii 
applv the substances 8 with caiSl's-SS 
brushes or feathers, and allow them to 
remain no longer than necessary, after 
which rinse well with water and dry with 
blotting paper. * 

II- — Citric acid 1 part 

Water, distilled 10 part3 

Concentrated solution 

of borax.... 2 parts 

Dissolve the citric acid in the water 
and add the borax. Apply to the paper 
with a delicate camel's-hair pencil, re- 
moving any excess of water with a blot- 
ter. A mixture of oxalic, citric, and tar- 
taric acids, in equal parts, dissolved in 
just enough water to give a clean solution, 
acts energetically on most inks. 

Erasing Powder or Pounce. — Alum, 1 
part; amber, 1 part; sulphur, 1 part; 
saltpeter, 1 part. Mix well together and 
keep in a glass bottle. If a little of 
this powder is placed on an ink spot or 
fresh writing, rubbing very lightly with a 
clean linen rag, the spot or the writing 
will disappear at once. 

Removing; Ink Stains.— I.— The ma- 
terial requiring treatment should first b 
soaked in clean, warm water, the super- 
fluous moisture removed, and the fabric 
spread over a clean cloth. Now allov 
a few minims of liquor ammonise fortis 
specific gravity 0.891, to drop on the ml 
spot then saturate a tiny tuft of absorbent 
cotton-wool with acidum phosphoncum 
dilutum, B. P., and apply repeatedly and 
with firm pressure over the stain; repeat 
the procedure two or three times and 
finally rinse well in warm water after 
wards drying in the sun, when every 
trace of ink will have va"}^, 
method is equally reliable for old and 

fresh ink stains is ^jS^Sbri* 
will not injure the most dehcate ,t*» 

IL -To remove ink ft g 

is soaked in warm water, wen 
squeezed out ^ spr«d »P«>y ^ d 

piece of linen. ^V^^jfic gravity 
of liquid ammonia of »JJ e ™ « t nex J t 
of 0-891 to the spot and J ^ 
with a wad of cotton ww ^ 

ing tbe slights trace. 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS 



190 

jll -Ink spots may be removed by 
the following mixture: 

Oxalic acid.,.- 10 pars 

Stannic chloride.... * Pjrta 

Acetic acid & parts 

wSStomake...... 500 parts 

Mix- . 

TV — Tbe customary method ot cleans- 
ing ink spots is to use oxalic acid . 1 hick 
Wotting paper is soaked m a concen- 
trated I folutU and dried. It is then laid 
immediately on the blot, and m many 
Stances will take the latter out without 
leaving a trace behind. _ In more stub- 
born cases the cloth is dipped in boiling 
water and rubbed with crystals of oxalic 
acid after which it is soaked in a weak 
solution of chloride of lime— say 1 ounce 
to a quart of water. Under such circum- 
stances the linen should be thoroughly 
rinsed in several waters afterwards. 
Oxalic acid is undesirable for certain 
fabrics because it removes the color. 

y. — Here is a more harmless method: 
Equal parts of cream of tartar and citric 
acid, powdered fine, and mixed together. 
This forms the " salts of lemon " sold by 
druggists. Procure a hot dinner plate, 
lay the part stained in the plate, and 
moisten with hot water; next rub in the 
above powder with the bowl of a spoon 
until the stains disappear; then rinse in 
clean water and dry. 

To Remove Red (Aniline) Ink. — 
Stains of red anilines, except eosine, are 
at once removed by moistening with 
alcohol of 94 per cent, acidulated with 
acetic acid. Eosine does not disappear 
so easily. The amount of acetic acid to 
be used is ascertained by adding it, drop 
by_ drop, to the alcohol, testing the 
mixture from time to time, un'il when 
dropped on the stain, the latter -it once 
disappears. 

CLEANING OF WALLS, CEILINGS, AND 
WALL PAPER : 

See also Household Formulas. 

To Renovate Brick Walls. —Dissolve 
glue in water in the proportion of 1 ounce 
ot glue to every gallon of water; add, 
while hot, a piece of alum the size of a 
nen s egg, £ pound Venetian red, and 1 
pound Spanish brown. Add more water 
it too dark; more red and brown if too 
light. 

Cleaning Painted Doors, Walls, etc.— 
i lie following recipe is designed for 
painted objects that are mucn soiled! 

corax, and 450 parts of brown soap of 



METHODS 



good quality, cut in small pi ecP51 , ' 
parts of water. The Hqmd ?''V>^ 
means of flannel and rinsed off P ! edb ? 
with pure water. . & t ou<«e 

To Remove Aniline Stainc- f r „ „ 
ings, etc-In renewing c^^J*. 
aniline color stains are often ve ol d 
ing, as they penetrate the new ^ U r° y ' 
Pa.nting over with shellac ^ oh*^ 
wdl bring relief, but other drl^T 
appear A very practical remedy ft 
place a tin vessel on the floor of the 
and to burn a quantity of sulphur?*; 
after the doors and windows of +^ xt 
have been closed. The siilpl^ 0 * 
destroy the aniline stains, which dis 
pear entirely. 



ap. 



Old 



Ceilings.— In dealing with old 
ceilings the distemper must be washed 
off down to the plaster face, all cracks 
raked out and stopped with putty (pl as . 
ter of Paris and distemper mixed), and 
the whole rubbed smooth with pumice 
stone and water; stained parts should be 
painted with oil color, and the whole 
distempered. If old ceilings are in bad 
condition it is desirable that they should 
be lined with paper, which should have 
a coat of weak size before being distem- 
pered. 

Oil Stains on Wall Paper.— Make a 
medium thick paste of pipe clay and 
water, applying it carefully flat upon the 
oil stain, but avoiding all friction. Tbe 
paste is allowed to remain 10 to 12 hours, 
after which time it is very carefully re- 
moved with a soft rag. In many cases a 
repeated action will be necessary until 
the purpose desired is fully reached. 
Finally, however, this- will be obtained 
without blurring or destroying the ^ 
sign of the wall paper, unless it be of W 
cheapest variety. In the case of a ligw, 
delicate paper, the paste should be com 
posed of magnesia and benzine. 

To Clean Painted Walls.-A 
method is to put a little aqua anijww 
in moderately warm water, da nap 
flannel with it, and gently wipe < oyer ^ 
painted surface. No scrubbing 
essary. 

Treatment of Whitewashed ^ 
It is suggested that whitewasjwu ^ 
which it is desired to paper, *i Ue&te d 
to preventing peeling, should gerape r 
with water, after which yf-g^hite- 
ahould be vigorously used 11 , j j£ ca° 
wash has been thoroughly soa* scraper . 
easily be removed with t pa rtoi 
Care should be taken that ever/ 
the wall is well scraped. 




■ 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 

'ki nine- Wall Paper. — I. — To < 
C. IeaC ^f the dust should first b 



clean 

w» l! § a jL lightly brushing preferably 
inovea .- at | ier duster, and the surface 
a n t]v rubbed with slices of moder- 
tb f Sle bread, the discolored surface 
hP bread being removed from time 
d f -l e so as to expose a fresh portion for 
Care should be taken to avoid 
U3C 'ainir the paper with the crust of the 
f A and the rubbing should be in one 
Swtion, the surface being systematically 
tone over, as in painting, to avoid the 
Lduction of streaks. 

*II —Mix 4 ounces of powdered pumice 
nuart of flour, and with the aid of 
later make a stiff dough. Form the 
dough into rolls 2 inches in diameter and 
6 inches long; sew each roll separately 
in a cotton cloth, then boil for 40 or 50 
minutes, so as to render the mass firm. 
Allow to stand for several hours, remove 
the crust, and they are ready for use. 

HI.— Bread will clean paper; but un- 
less it is properly used the job will be a 
very tedious one. Select a ' tin " loaf at 
least two days old. Cut of? the crust at 
one end, and rub down the paper, com- 
mencing at the top. Do not rub the 
bread backwards and forwards, but in 
single strokes. When the end gets dirty 
take a very sharp knife and pare off a 
thin layer; then proceed as before. 

It is well to make sure that the walls 
we quite dry before using the bread, or it 
may smear the pattern. If the room is 
furnished ^ will, of course, be necessary 
o place cloths around the room to catch 
tne crumbs. 

^"TT^ preparation for cleansing wall 
Wer that often proves much more effec- 
uaunan ordinary bread, especially when 
^H per , ls ver y dirt y» is ™de bv mix- 
»hn,luF gh and * P laster of Pa ris. " This 
ioriu ? ade a da y before ^ is needed 
use an d should be very gently baked. 



shm,l?l re are an y grease spots they 
flatir™ 6 . remo ^d ly holding a hot 
Placed agam ^ a piece of blotting paper 
^Sr e ^ them - If this faik, a little 
'Wo a r? 9c v °- P l P e cla y should be made 
V C te Wl , th w ater, and this should 
6te ase L^ arefu ly Postered over the 
e dTV™ allowed to remain till 

V.-!^r- he grease. 



l^^^y plastered over the 

^ dr? \ and . alWe 
*Wrli J\? hen 11 will be found to have 
grease. 

- and* to A ether 1 pound each of rye 
^iin,^, 6 fl ° Ur into a dough, 
^oved. t ll \ ? ook ed and the crust 
nT a nd i tn13 1 ounce common 
I^are^j 11 ? 6 of Powdered naph- 
¥i tt *2 lH^' and ^ally 1 ounce of 
ae <*taTw-.. * ? unce of burnt umber. 
Position JS formed into a mass, 



191 

n^ndra ? nXn^tV^tln P ^ d ^ *■ 
one potion ov * t^-ja 

p aces in it, then get a bScket^f ^ 
clean, dry, wheat bran 1 n !3T' 
sponge flat side up, and n?t a h U ft 
bran on it, then quicklv ha ^ dful *>« 

wall, and 'rub t&^^f*"?* th ° 

Hold a large pan or spread down a drirl 
doth to catch the bran as it falls b£ 
never use the same bran twice. Still 
another way is to use Canton flannel in 
strips a foot wide and about 3 yards 
1 a stri P around a stick 1 
inch thick and 10 inches long, so as to 
have the ends of the stick covered, with 
the nap of the cloth outside. As the 
cloth gets soiled, unroll the soiled part 
and roU it up with the soiled face inside. 

In this way one can change places on 
the cloth when soiled and use the whole 
face of the cloth. To take out a grease 
spot requires care. First, take several 
thicknesses of brown wrapping paper 
and make a pad, place it against the 
grease spot, and hold a hot flatiron 
against it to draw out the grease, which 
will soak into the brown paper. Be 
careful to have enough layers of brown 
paper to keep the iron from scorching or 
discoloring the wall paper. If the first 
application does not take out nearly all 
the grease, repeat with clean brown 
paper or a blotting pad Then take an 
ounce vial of washed sulphuric ether and 
a soft, fine, clean sponge and sponge the 
spot carefully until all the grease disap- 
pears. Do not wipe the place with the 
sponge and ether, but dab the sponge 
carefully against the place. A small 
quantity of ether is advised, as it is very 
inflammable. 

CLOTHES AND FABRIC CLEANERS: 
Soaps for Clothing and . Fabrics - 
When the fabric is washable and the 
color fast, ordinary soap and water are 
sufficient for removing grease and th = or 
dinarily attendant dirt; 
are made which may possibly be more 
effectual. 
I.-Powdered borax ... SO grto 
Extract of soap bark |0 par 

Ox gall (fresh^ J» PJjg 

Castile soap 40U P 

First make th« -.^4tr^5 
boiling the "™bfJA™ then strain 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



92 

• j rtf h „ at evaporate it to a solid 

by th ^ a ;tn powder and mix it with the 
extract; then pow fc the castlle 

b0raX bv a add& a Sail quantity of water 
^^ili. add the other ingre- 

^^^"lOO parts of soap bark make 2 0 
parts of extract. 

r ., „ a pounds 

TI.— Castile soap.. - • i £ound 

Potassium carbonate.. J pound 

Camphor | ounce 

Alcohol. , unce 

Ammonia water * ou , nce 

Hot water, J pint, or sufficient. 

Dissolve the potassium carbonate m 
tb P watel add the soap previously re- 
duced to thin shavings, ieep warm over 
fwater bath, stirring occasiona l until 
dissolved, adding more water if neces- 
sary and finally? when of a consistence 
5 fccome semisolid on cooling, remove 
rom the fire. When nearly ready to 
set stir in the camphor, previously dis- 
solved in the alcohol and the ammonia. 

The soap will apparently be quite as 
efficacious without the camphor and 
ammonia. , 

If a paste is desired, a potash soap 
should be used instead of the castile in 
the foregoing formula, and a portion or 
all of the water omitted. Soaps made 
from potash remain soft, while soda 
soaps harden on the evaporation of the 
water which they contain when first 
made. 

A liquid preparation may be obtained, 
of course, by the addition of sufficient 
water, and some more alcohol would 
probably improve it. 

Clothes-Cleaning Fluids : 
See also Household Formulas. 

I. — Boras 1 ounce 

Castile soap 1 ounce 

Sodium carbonate. . . 8 drachms 

Ammonia water 5 ounces 

Alcohol 4 ounces 

Acetone 4 ounces 

Hot water to make. . . 4 pints 
Dissolve the borax, sodium bicarbo- 
nate, and soap in the hot water, mix the 
acetone and alcohol together, unite the 
two solutions, and then add the ammonia 
water. The addition of a couple of 
ounces of rose water will render it some- 
what fragrant. 

— A strong decoction of soap bark, 
preserved by the addition of alcohol, 
torms a good liquid cleanser for fabrics 
ot trie more delicate sort. 

III.— Chloroform 15 p art3 

^ ther -.. 15 parts 



Alcohol , 



.120 



Parts 



IV. 



Decoction of quilluia 

bark of 30°.. 4, 5on ^ , 
* . • ir ,ouu Parts 

-Acetic ether.. . lft 

Amyl acetate..'.'.;;; 
Liquid ammonia. in™! 3 
Dilute alcohol....;; 7u 

V.— Another good non-infiarn ma hU 
spot remover consists of equal uartt t 
acetone, ammonia, and diluted alcoh 1 
For use in large quantities carbon tetra 



chloride is suggested. 

VI. — Castile soap 

Water, boiling... 
Dissolve and add: 



4 a\\ ounces 
32 fluidouu ces 



Water 1 Ka H on 

Ammonia 8 fluidounces 

Ether 2 fluidounces 

Alcohol 4 fluidounces 

To Remove Spots from Tracing Clot 
— It is best to use benzine, which is ap- 
plied by means of a cotton rag. The 
benzine also takes off lead-pencil marks, 
but does not attack India and other ink 
The places treated with benzine shoul 
subsequently be rubbed with a littl 
talcum, otherwise it would not be po 
sible to use the pen on them. 

Removal of Paint from Clothing. 
Before paint becomes "dry" it can b 
removed from cloth by the liberal appii 
cation of turpentine or benzine. If M 
spot is not large, it may be immersed 
the liquid; otherwise, a thick, tolde 
absorbent cloth should be placed unde 
the fabric which has been spotted an 
the liquid sponged on freely enoughtha 
it mav soak through, ca« tljj« 
matter with it. Some skill 1* e WJP 
lation is requisite to avoid 
ing the stain and leaving a 
show how far it has extended. 

used tne 



operat 

eful to apply ^uly; fi 
ght or fire, 
extremely inflarnmabh 



When benzine 
must be car 



absence ofTight or fire, ™ 

„i„ ,-r.fl a mmable charade 



vapor. . . f-p«h are treat 

Varnish stains, when fresj flf t 
in the same way, but '\ 0 coP1 plet 
solvent may possibly not seSl t. 
on account of the gum ^l^ish J 
When either paint or re dl 
dried, its removal becomes st 
cult. In such case soakm. ^ eTa 
ammonia water may answ T S f 
sion, formed by shaking tog di 
of ammonia water aIld * IlG ed. 
pentinc, has been reconww ^ ^ 
To Remove VaselU» ^» j tb a tf> 
Clothing. ^Moisten t hej** j 0 f P° 
ture of 1 part of aniline 



WANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



193 



and 10 of water. After 
derei W; doth to He for 5 or 10 min- 
9!loffI "?sh with water. 

p' m0 ve Grease Spots, from Plush. 
T ? R freJh bread rolls m the oven, 
" Pl ft e hcm apart as soon as they haye 

brea erv hot. and rub the spots Wlth 
become w tiriu i n g the work by us- 
the crumby co flll ° tracea of f at have 

in g new ^ ls ^ om the f a b r i c . Purified 
disappear ^ ^ altep eyftn the 

St ll S ipaie colora ' is also useful for 

£ purpose, 
m Remove Iron Rust from Muslin 
J Linen —Wet with lemon juice and 
St ind expose to the sun. If one ap- 
l cation does not remove the spots, a 
second rarely fails to do so. 

Keroclean. — This non -inflammable 
cleanser removes grease spots f rom deli- 
cate fabrics without injury, cleans all 
kinds of jewelry and tableware by re- 
moving fats and tarnish, kills moths, 
insects, and household pests by suffo- 
cation and extermination, and cleans 
ironware by removing rust, brassware by 
removing grease, copperware by remov- 
ing verdigris. It is as clear as water 
and will stand any fire test. 

Kerosene 1 ounce 

Carbon tetrachloride 

(commercial) 3 ounces 

Oil of citronella % drachms 

Mix, and filter if necessary. If a 
strong odor of carbon bisulphide is de- 
tected in the carbon tetrachloride first 
snake with powdered charcoal and filter. 

C1 f- an Gold and Silver Lace.— 
• Alkaline liquids sometimes used for 
wannig gold lace are unsuitable, for 
cS ?r L crall y corrode or change the 
inW the Sllk - A so ^°n of soap also 
IheS Wlth certaln colors > and should 
«ftrf?JS be em ? lo yed. Alcohol is 
WwS iV emed y for restoring the 
<*tar,v P ld ' and St ™ay be used with- 
hold i^"^ 1- * 0 the si lk s but where the 
Posed iJ°- rn otf ' and the base metal ex- 
plishiriE? it n0t S ° succesa ful in accom- 
tar nish t}f p , Ur P° se > as by removing the 
becomes more 



u gu.shablc from the fine gold. 
^inv e ryfil eaa sll Y er lace tale al 



abas- 



cl °th anil P owde r, lay the lace upon 
of thl ^ a Soft brU3 h take up 
> H till W Wder ' and rub both sides 
t ter *ards * r c ? mes br »sht and clean, 
> l *U rL P n 0ll l h with another brush 
^<Wri ,! n P.,°. f the Powder are re- 
**1 — Silvi™. 6 ? lblts a iustrous surface. 
lv <* Laces are tmt in curdled 



milk for 24 hours 

soap, or any other RoodTn*« U1 - venetla n 
and stirred into 2 quarts ' " SCraped 
To this ^quantity of h on -- Water " 
\ and the wh 



A piece of Venetian 
d soap, ig scraped 
'™s of ram water 
l °n e y and f res h ox 
time Tf It V h ° le ls 5tirr ed for 
more water i/add^ThS m ° 
lowed to stand for half a Iv^ 3 ¥ a J" 
wet laces are painted wi^Sf* \%t^ 



gall is added 
some 



wet cloth around the roller of » ™ P i a 
wind the laces over this, putL^rtl 
cloth on top, and press, wetting and re 
peating the application several times. 
Next dip the laces m a clear solution of 
equal parts of sugar and gum arabie 
pass them again through the mangle' 
between two clean pieces of cloth and 
hang them up to dry thoroughly, attach- 
ing a^ weight to the lower end. 

IV. — Soak gold laces over night in 
cheap white wine and then proceed as 
with silver laces. If the gold is worn off, 
put 771 grains of shellac, 31 grains of 
dragon's blood, 31 grains of turmeric in 
strong alcohol and pour off the ruby-col- 
ored fluid. Dip a fine hair pencil in this, 
paint the pieces to be renewed, and hold 
a hot flatiron a few inches above them, 
so that only the laces receive the heat. 

V. — Silver embroideries may also be 
cleaned by dusting thorn with Vienna 
lime, and brushing off with a velvet 
brush. 

For gildings the stuff is dippedin a 
solution of gold chloride, and this is re- 
duced by means of hydrogen in another 

v^?s s d 

For silvering, one of the following two 
processes may be employed: (a) Paint- 
ing with a solution of 1 part of phos- 
phorus in 15 parts bisulphide of carbon 
and dipping in a solution of nitrate of 
silver; (£) dipping for 2 hours m a solu- 
tion of nitrate of silver, mixed with am- 
monia, then exposing to a current ot pure 
hydrogen. 

To Remove Silver -Stains, from White 
Fabrics. -Moisten the fabric for twe .or 
three minutes with j .solution o * p£ 

of bromine and 500 P art \ f a vei l oW - 
Then rinse in clear water If a yell 

ish stain remains, Y? me w n0 suiphite in 
of 1 50 parts of so< lum. bjpgj Ip^ 
500 parts of water, ana »g 
clearwater. 

Rust-Spot B^^^dlSnSl 
siurn bioxalate, 200 parts, ^ 

water, 8.8O0 Ijgte ; add gj ^ Qr 
parts, and filter. ^ let the hne|* 
Jnk Te foT ^ hours rubbing the moist- 



etc 
ene 
with 



h well 



19* 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



To Clean Quilts,— Quilts are cleaned 1 
Lshfne them in lukewarm soap- 



by first washing them in i^e^™ 
suds, then l»W t t-^ ^^'fi^ 
^^sird afdy as^ssible an¥ h™l 
S?; ?h e e S ends i" whicS the moisture 
mains for a longtime, must be wrung 

swdliac up the wadding, and preventing 
?t from felting- Furthermore, the quilts 
should be heatedly turned during the 
S from right to left and also from 
top to bottom In this manner streaks 
are avoided. 

Removal of Peruvian-Balsam Stains. 
—The fabric is spread out a piece ot 
filter paper being placed beneath the 
stain, and the latter is then copiously 
moistened with chloroform, applied by 
means of a tuft of cotton wool. Rubbing 
is to be avoided. 

Solution for Removing Nitrate of Sil- 
ver Spots. — 

Bichloride of mercury 5 parts 
Ammonium chloride. 5 parts 

Distilled water 40 parts 

Apply the mixture to the spots with a 
cloth, then rub. This removes, almost 
instantaneously, even old stains on linen, 
cotton, or wool. Stains on the skin thus 
treated become whitish yellow and soon 
disappear. 

Cleaning Tracings.— Tracing cloth 
can be very quickly and easily cleaned, 
and pencil marks removed by the use of 
benzine, which is applied with a cotton 
swab. It may be rubbed freely over the 
tracing without injury to lines drawn in 
ink, or even in water color, but the pencil 
marks and dirt will quickly disappear. 
The benzine evaporates almost immedi- 
ately, leaving the tracing unharmed. 
The surface, however, has been softened 
and must be rubbed down with talc, or 
some similar substance, before drawing 
any more ink lines. 

The glaze may be restored to tracing 
cloth after using the eraser by rubbing 
the roughened surface with a piece of 
hard wax from an old phonograph 
cylinder. The surface thus produced is 
superior to that of the original glaze, as 
it is absolutely oil- and water-proof. 

Rags for Cleaning and Polishing. — 
Immerse flannel rags in a solution of 20 
parte of dextrine and 30 parts of oxalic 
acid m 20 parts of logwood decoction; 
gently wring them out, and sift over them 
a mixture of finely powdered tripoli and 



pumice stone. Pile the moist rs 
upon another, placing a layer of th e 
der between each two. Tb 
rate, and dry. 

Cleaning Powder. — 
Bole.. 

Magnesium carbo 
nate 

Mix and make into 



e *i press, 



sepa. 



500 



parts 



5 0 parts 



~rr a —•- a paste with a 

small quantity of benzine or water; annlv 
to stains made by fats or oils on the cloth 
ing and when dry remove with a brush 



CLEANING PAINTED 
NISHED SURFACES; 



a brush. 
AND VAR. 



Cleaning and Preserving Polished 
Woodwork. Rub down all the polished 
work with a very weak alcoholic solu- 
tion of shellac (1 to 20 or even 1 to 30) 
and linseed oil, spread on a linen cloth. 
The rubbing should be firm and hard. 
Spots on the polished surface, made by 
alcohol, tinctures, water, etc., should he 
removed as far as possible and as soon as 
•possible after they are made, by the use 
of boiled linseed oil. Afterwards they 
should be rubbed with the shellac and 
linseed oil solution on a soft linen rag. 
If the spots are due to acids go over them 
with a little dilute ammonia water. Ink 
spots may be removed with dilute or (if 
necessary) concentrated hydrochloric 
acid, following its use with dilute ammo- 
nia water. In extreme cases it may he 
necessary 1 * use the scraper or sandpa- 
per, or boti*. . , , 
Oak as s general thing is not polished, 
but has a matt surface which can be 
washed wil h water and soap. * irs * ai 
stains and spots should be gone our 
with a sponge or a soft brush and tgj 
weak ammonia water. Hie carv ™ 
should be freed of dust etc. 
of a stiff brush, and finally ^he 
with dilute ammonia water. ^ 
it should be gone over very • i ma a 
evenly with brunohnc applied m &n 
soft pencil. If it is desired to ^ 
especially handsome hni&n, j inJ . 
surface is entirely dry, fi ive , u . ' ]lo r w this 
inarv coat of brunoline ana j vO0 
on the day after with a second. t ; D 
line may be purchased f ^ is 0 f li* 
paints. To make it, put . i 0 J a *] (on 
seed oil in a very capacious J ^ 
account of the foam that ensuejJ g0 
to it gO parts of powdered Ut ^ ^ 
parts of powdered minium, a" , jjoii 
of lead acetate, also P^f^ed, stif , 
until the oil is comp etely oxi j 
ring constantly. When compl ^ . g j ft 
dized the oil is no longer rco, - 
dark brown color. When 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



j remove from the fire, and add 
Krts'of turpentine oil, and stir well. 
JSP brunoline ur»> splendidly for 
furniture or other polished 



pa 



!ishi»g 



wood. _ 
Ta Clean Lacquered Goods.— Pa pier- 

hP and lacquered goods may be 
T-ned perfectly by rubbing thoroughly 
L ste made of wheat flour and 
r il Apply with a bit of soft flan- 
ti e or old linen, rubbing hard; wipe off 
and polish by rubbing with an old silk 
handkerchief. 

Polish for Varnished Work.— To reno- 
-,+e varnished work make a polish of 1 
niiirt cood vinegar, 2 ounces butter of 
itimony, 2 ounces alcohol, and 1 quart 
pjl, Shake well before using. 

To Clean Paintings. —To clean an oil 
painting, take it out of its frame, lay a 
niece of cloth moistened with rain water 
on it, and leave it for a while to take up 
the dirt from the picture. Several appli- 
cations may be required to secure a 
perfect result. Then wipe the picture 
very gently with a tuft of cotton wool 
damped with absolutely pure linseed oil. 
Gold frames may be cleaned with a 
freshly cut onion; they should be wiped 
with a soft sponge wet with rain water a 
few hours after the application of the 
onion, and finally wiped with a soft rag. 

Removing and Preventing Match 
Marks.— The unsightly marks made on 
a painted surface by striking matches on 
it can sometimes be removed by scrub- 
bing with soapsuds and a stiff brush. 
To prevent match marks dip a bit of 
flannel in alboline (liquid vaseline), and 
with it go over the surface, rubbing it 
hard. A second rubbing with a dry bit 
« nannel completes the job. A man 
m W strike " a match there all day, and 
neither got a light nor make a mark. 

GLOVE CLEANERS: 
Powder for Cleaning Gloves.— 
"White bole or pipe 

rvT. a y 60.0 parts 

Urns root (pow- 

■n^ed) 30.0 parts 

-tWdered grain 

•p Soa ,P 7.5 parts 

powdered borax ... 15.0 parts 
Ammonium chlor- 

^ lde 2.5 parts 

the »i X t5le aD °ve ingredients. Moisten 

* gloves with a rL, ,r,^ „„K r\ t, 



le „i — " v c ingreaients. moisten 

owdBr VeS ^ a dam P cloth - rub 011 lhe 
II "i? " rusri oil after drying. 
4 poun f ° Ur P° unds powdered pipe clay, 
nus powdered white soap, 1 ounce 



195 

fc oi i thoroughly rubbed together 
lo use, make powder Ini,, „ 6 

Soaps and Pastes for Cleaning Gloves — 

L ~Water 0aP 1 ° Unce ' 

X.f te /: 4 ounces 

Oiloflemori £ drachm 

Precipitated chalk, a 
sufficient quantity 

Dissolve the soap in the water, add tha 
oil, and make into a stiff paste with a 
sufficient quantity of chalk. 

II. — White hard soap 1 p ar t 

Talcum i par t 

Water 4 parts 

Shave the soap into ribbons, dissolve 
in the water by the aid of heat, and in- 
corporate the talcum. 

III. - — Curd soap 1 av. ounce 

Water 4 fluidounces 

Oil of lemon. .... \ fluidrachm 
French chalk, a sufficient quantity, 

Shred the soap and melt it in the wate 
by heat, add the oil of lemon, and mak 
into a stiff paste with French chalk. 

IV. — White castile soap, 

old and dry 15 parts 

Water 15 parts 

Solution of chlorin- 
ated soda 16 parts 

Ammonia water. ... 1 part 
Cut or shave up the soap, add th 
water, and heat on the water bath to 
smooth paste. Remove, let cool, ant 
add the other ingredients and mix thor- 
oughly. 
V. ^Castile soap, white 

w S. and . dry -:::: 

Tincture of quillaia 10 parts 
Ether, sulphuric. . . 
Ammonia water, 

FF 

Benzine, deodorized 



100 parts 



10 parts 

5 parts 
75 parts 



then add 



'--^^^^gredients 



wn, 

em , incor : 

then add tne , "i"?" This should, 

norating them *ho^ug %• * * r tightly 
te pu^t up in eollapsio ^ ig also use . 
closed metallic boxes, 
f ul for clothing. 

LiquM Cloth and mm CI*--- 

Gasoline x * unce 

Chloroform . . . . . • • 
Carbon disulpmde. .. 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



Essential oil almond. . 5 drops 

Oil bcrgamot 1 drachm 

Oil cloves 5 drops 

Mix. To be applied with a sponge 
or soft cloth. 
STONE CLEANING: 

Cleaning and Polishing Marble.— 
I —Marble that has become dirty by 
ordinary use or exposure may be cleaned 
by a simple bath of soap and water. 

If this does not remove stains, a weak 
solution of oxalic add should be applied 
with a sponge or rag, washing quickly 
and thoroughly with water to minimize 
injury to the surface. 

Rubbing well after this with chalk 
moistened with water will, m a measure 
restore the luster. Another method ot 
finishing is to apply a solution of white 
wax in turpentine (about 1 in 10), rub- 
bing thoroughly with a piece of flannel 
or soft leather. 

If the marble has been much exposed, 
so that its luster has been seriously im- 
paired, it may be necessary to repolish 
it in a more thorough manner. This 
may be accomplished by rubbing it first 
with sand, beginning with a moderately 
coarse-grained article and changing this 
twice for finer kinds, after which tripoli 
or pumice is used. The final polish is 
given by the so-called putty powder. A 
plate of iron is generally used in applying 
the coarse sand; with the fine sand a 
leaden plate is used; and the pumice is 
employed, in the form of a smooth-surfaced 
piece of convenient sine. For the final 
polishing coarse linen or bagging is used, 
wedged tightly into an iron planing tool. 
During all these applications water is 
allowed to trickle over the face of the 
stone. 

The putty powder referred to is bin- 
oxide of tin, obtained by treating metal- 
lic tin with nitric acid, which converts 
the metal into hydrated metastannic acid. 
This, when heated, becomes anhydrous. 
In this condition it is known as putty 
powder. In practice putty powder is 
mixed with alum, sulphur, and other 
substances, the mixture used being de- 
pendent upon the nature of the stone to 
be polished. 

According to Warwick, colored mar- 
ble should not be treated with soap and 
water, but only with the solution of bees- 
wax above mentioned. 

II- — Take 2 parts of sodium bicarbon- 
ate, 1 part of powdered pumice stone, 
and 1 part of finely pulverized chalk. 
Pass through a fine sieve to screen out 
all particles capable of scratching the 
marble, and add sufficient water to form 



a pasty mass. Rub the marble with u 
vigorously, and end the cleaning 
soap and water. b Un 



in. -Oxgall i part 
Saturated solution 
of sodium carbo- 
nate 4 part3 

Oil of turpentine . . 1 part 
Pipe clay enough to form a paste. 

IV. — Sodium carbonate. 2 ounces 

Chlorinated lime. . 1 ounce 

Water 14 ounces 

Mix well and apply the magma to the 
marble with a cloth, rubbing well in, and 
finally rubbing dry. It may be neces- 
sary to repeat this operation. 

V. — Wash the surface with a mixture 
of finely powdered pumice stone and vin- 
egar, and leave it for several hours; then 
brush it hard and wash it clean. When, 
dry, rub with whiting and wash leather. 

VI. — Soft soap 4 parts 

Whiting 4 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 1 part 
Copper sulphate. . . 2 parts 

Mix thoroughly and rub over the mar- 
ble with a piece of flannel, and leave it 
on for 24 hours, then wash it off with 
clean water, and polish the marble with 
a piece of flannel or an old piece of felt. 

VII. — A strong solution of oxalic acid 
effectually takes out ink stains. In 
handling it the poisonous nature of this 
acid should not be forgotten, 

VIII. — Iron mold or ink spots may 
be taken out in the following man- 
ner: Take I ounce of butter of antimony 
and 1 ounce of oxalic acid and dissolve 
them in 1 pint of rain water; add enough 
flour to bring the mixture to a proper 
consistency. Lay it evenly on tne 
stained part with a brush, and, alter it 
has remained for a few days, was Q it oir 
and repeat the process if the stain is not 
wholly removed. 

IX. — To remove oil stains apply com- 
mon clay saturated with benzine, 
the grease has remained in long 

oliah will be injured, but the stam wiU 
e removed. , . mn v. 

X. — The following method reT T 
ing rust from iron depends upon we su 
bility of the sulphide of iron in a ? ol " T ^ e 
of cyanide of potassium. CJayJS 
into a thin paste with ammonium ~ 
phide, and the rust spot smearea ^ 
the mixture, care being t » leeII A 2^ ten 
spot is only just covered. J" d re- 
minutes this paste is washed on ^ o]e 
placed by one consisting ot w ' iuin 
mixed with a solution ot 
cyanide (1 to 4), which is m 113 



I 



turn 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



,hed off after about gjhours. J 
* fl s j li.fi spot remain after wash 
r edai3' j second] aver may 



Should 
ing off 



first paste, a second layer may be ap- 
pik- 

_Softsoap 4 ounces 



3 vT —Soft soap. 

^ Whiting i bounces 

Sodium carbonate. 1 ounce 
Water, a sufficient quantity. 

Make into a thin paste apply on the 
soiled surface, and wash off after 24 

h0 YTT —In a spacious tub place a tall 
upside down. On this set the 
Se to be cleaned so that at will not 
Said in the water, which would loosen 
the cemented parts. Into this tub pour 
few inches of cold water— hot water 
renders marble dull— take a soft brush 
and a piece of Venetian soap, dip the 
former in the water and rub on the latter 
carefully, brushing off the article from 
top to bottom. When in this manner 
dust and dirt have been dissolved, wash 
off all soap particles by means of a water- 
in" pot and cold water, dab the object 
with a clean sponge, which absorbs the 
moisture, place it upon a cloth and care- 
fully dry with a very clean, soft cloth, 
rubbing gently. This treatment will 
restore the former gloss to the marble. 

XIII. — Mix and shake thoroughly in 
a bottle equal quantities of sulphuric acid 
and lemon juice. Moisten the spots and 
rub them lightly with a linen cloth and 
they will disappear. 

XIV. — Ink spots are treated with acid 
oxalate of potassium; blood stains by 
brushing with alabaster dust and dis- 
tilled water, then bleaching with chlorine 
solution. Alizarine ink and aniline ink 
spots can be moderated by laying on rags 
saturated with Javelle water, chlorine wa- 
ter, or chloride of lime paste. Old oil 
stems can only be effaced by placing the 
Whole piece of marble for hours in ben- 

ztI'a i sh oil or S rease s P ots are oblit- 
littl \ a 7 re peated applications of a 
hr I v mp> white cla y and subsequent 
Sr e Witil soa P water or weak soda 
plic-iV D " c F i° r man y other spots an ap- 
X V° n £r ° enzine and magnesia is useful, 
not l , rble slabs keep well and do 
clean , frcsh c «lor if they are 

addhi Wl f hot water onlv > witn °nt the 
th e oaU ^° ap ' w hich is injurious to 
s . u, °r. Care must be taken that no 



Se d „ dr i es °, n *e marble 
s P'dt nf i are cleaned "With diluted 



If spots of 
ve already ap- 



ammoniac, highly diluted 

a ™ ■ Javelle water > ox g all » or > 
^withw * - ty of newl y slaked lime, mix 
aier m *o a paste-like consistency. 



r»kea 



apply the paste uniformly on the *. i 

nff Tf th„ y uetore it is washec 

on. It the spots are not removed hv 
single application, repeat the laUer T 
using Javelle water l^or 2 drop should 

To Remove Grease Spots from Marble. 

—it the spots are fresh, rub them over 
with a piece of cloth that has been dipped 
into pulverized china clay, repeating the 
operation several times, and then brush 
with soap and water. When the spots 
are old brush with distilled water an 
finest French plaster energetically, tht u 
bleach with chloride of lime that is put 
on a piece of white cloth. If the piece of 
marble is small enough to permit it, soak 
it for a few hours in refined benzine. 

Preparation for Cleaning Marble^ 
Furniture, and Metals, Especially Cop- 
per. — This preparation is claimed to giv< 
very quickly perfect brilliancy, persisting 
without soiling either the hand or the 
articles, and without leaving any odor o\ 
copper. The following is the composi- 
tion for 100 parts of the product: Wax, 
2.4 parts; oil of turpentine, 9.4 parts; 
acetic acid, 42 parts; citric acid, 42 parts; 
white soap, 42 parts. 

Removing Oil Stains from Marble.— 
Saturate fuller's earth with a solution of 
equal parts of soap liniment, ammonia, 
and water; apply to the greasy part of 
the marble; keep there for some hours, 
pressed down with a smoothing iron 
sufficiently hot to warm the mass, and 
as it evaporates occasionally renew the 
solution. When wiped off dry the stain 
will have nearly disappeared. Some 
days later, when more oif works toward 
the surface repeat the operation. A tew 
such treatments should suffice. 

powdered terra cott- ^ . 

Renovation of f^nea Thi - 

Surfaces of Wood. Stone, etc. i ' 
fcmriaces ui " following ingredients, 
composed of the touo* g varied: 
though the Proportions may be 
Cereal flour or. wood j?ulp, of 



hme 16 P»^' JSSient. thoroughly i 
mixing t„ he J n a g homo geneou S pa ste, th« 



order to form a no* — d with 
object to be treatea « t 
an J d allowed to ■tjnd^ ^ d 

« a » * piece of s ° ft 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



leather or a brush, which will remove 
dirt grease, and other deleterious sub- 
stances. By rubbing gently with a 
cloth or piece of leather a polished sur- 
face will be imparted to wood, and ob- 
jects of metal will be rendered lustrous. 

The addition of chloride of hme tends 
to keep the paste moist, thus allowing the 
ready removal of the paste without dam- 
aging the varnish or polish, while the 
turpentine serves as a disinfectant and 
renders the odor less disagreeable during 
the operation. 

The preparation is rapid m its action, 
and does not affect the varnished or 
polished surfaces of wood or marble. 
While energetic in its cleansing action on 
brass and other metallic objects, it is 
attended with no corrosive effect. 

Nitrate of Silver Spots. — To remove 
these spots from white marble, they 
should be painted with Javelle water, 
and after having been washed, passed 
over a concentrated solution of thiosul- 
phate of soda (hyposulphite). 
I To Remove Oil-Paint Spots from 
Sandstones. — This may be done by 
washing the spots with pure turpentine 
oil, then covering the place with white 
argillaceous earth (pipe clay), leaving it 
to dry, and finally rubbing with sharp 
soda lye, using a brush. Caustic am- 
monia also removes oil-paint spots from 
sandstones. 

RUST REMOVERS: 

To Remove Rust from Iron or Steel 
Utensils. — 

I. — Apply the following solution by 
means of a brush, after having removed 
any grease by rubbing with a clean, dry 
cloth: 100 parts of stannic chloride are 
dissolved in 1,000 parts of water; this 
solution is added to one containing 2 
parts tartaric acid dissolved in 1,000 
parts of water, and finally 20 cubic cen- 
timeters indigo solution, diluted with 
2,000^ parts of water, are added. After 
allowing the solution to act upon the 
stain for a few seconds, it is rubbed clean, 
first with a moist cloth, then with a dry 
cloth; to restore the polish use is made of 
silver sand and jewelers' rouge. 

II. — When the rust is recent it is re- 
moved by rubbing the metal with a cork 
charged with oil. In this manner a per- 
fect polish is obtained. To take off old 
rust, mix equal parts of fine tripoli and 
flowers of sulphur, mingling this mixture 

Hub the iron with this preparation by 
means of a skin. 

— The rusty piece is connected 
With a piece of zinc and placed in water 



containing a little sulphuric acid Ah 
the articles have been in the liquirl t 
several days or a week, the rust will h 
completely disappeared. The lencth?! 
time will depend upon the depth f 
which the rust has penetrated. A liui 
sulphuric acid may be added from thV 
to time, but the chief point is that th* 
zinc always has good electric contalJ 
with the iron. To insure this an i T 
wire may be firmly wound around th* 
iron object and connected with the zin 
The iron is not attacked in the least a' 
long as the zinc is kept in good electric 
contact with it. When the articles are 
taken from the liquid they assume a dark 
gray or black color and are then washed 
and oiled. 

IV. — The rust on iron and steel ob- 
jects, especially large pieces, is readily 
removed by rubbing the pieces with oil 
of tartar, or with very fine emery and a 
little oil, or by putting powdered alum in 
strong vinegar and rubbing with this 
aluined vinegar. 

V. — Take cyanide of calcium, 25 
parts; white soap, powdered, 25 parts; 
Spanish white, 50 parts; and water, 20Q 
parts. Triturate all well and rub the 
piece with this paste. The effect will be 
quicker if before using this paste the 
rusty object has been soaked for 5 to 
10 minutes in a solution of cyanide of 
potassium in the ratio of 1 part of cya- 
nide to 2 parts of water. 

VI. — To remove rust from polished 
steel cyanide of potassium is excellent. 
If possible, soak the instrument to be 
cleaned in a solution of cyanide of potas- 
sium in the proportion of 1 ounce of cya- 
nide to 4 ounces of water. Allow this 
to act till all loose rust is removed, and 
then polish with cyanide soap. it e 
latter is made as follows: Potassium cya- 
nide, precipitated chalk, white castile 
soap. Make a saturated solution of tbe 
cyanide and add chalk sufficient to make 
a creamy paste. Add the soap cut in 
fine shavings and thoroughly incorporate 
in a mortar. When the mixture is sua 
cease to add the soap. It should be re- 
membered that potassium cyanide is 
virulent poison. , _„ 

VII. — Apply turpentine or ^eio^e 
oil, and after letting it stand over mg n - 
clean with finest emery cloth. _ i 

VIII. — To free articles of iron aiu 
steel from rust and imbedded grains . 
sand the articles are treated with tiu ^ 
hydric acid (about 2 per cent) i ^ 
hours, wherebvthe impurities bin j w 
metal are dissolved.' This is f° llo ^ ]ize 
a washing with lime milk, to neui 
any fluornydric acid remaining. 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



—First 
er a few 



To Remove Rust from Nickel 

the articles well; then, afh 
? re3Se n ib them with a rag charged with 
dap' ■ jf the rust spots persist, add 
fl0 ^drop s of jby^ roc t l loric acid to the 
a •„ r ub and wipe off at once. 
S rinse with water, dry, and polish 
p tripoli. 
Removal of Rust. — To take off the 
t from small articles which glass or 
erv paper would bite too deeply, the 
Mr erasing rubber used in business 
Sees may be employed. By beveling it, 
cutting it to a point as needful, it can 
he introduced into the smallest cavities 
" n( J windings, and a perfect cleaning be 
elfectcd. 

To Remove Rust from Instruments. — 

I— Lay the instruments over night in 
a' saturated solution of chloride of tin. 
The rust spots will disappear through 
reduction. Upon withdrawal from the 
solution the instruments are rinsed with 
water, placed in a hot soda-soap solution, 
and dried. Cleaning with absolute alco- 
hol and polishing chalk may also follow. 

II.— Make a solution of 1 part of 
kerosene in 200 parts o£ benzine or car- 
bon tetrachloride, and dip the instru- 
ments, which have been dried by leaving 
them In heated air, in this, moving their 
parts, if movable, as in forceps and scis- 
sors, about under the liquid, so that it 
may enter all the crevices. Next lay the 
lastruments on a plate in a dry room, so 
that the benzine can evaporate. Nee- 
dles are simply thrown in the paraffine 
solution, and taken out with tongs or 
weezers; after which they are allowed to 
dr y°n a pkte. 

l Pa 7 Pour olive od on tne rust s P ots antl 
eave tor several days; then rub with 

<?2 7 f° r tn P° U > without wiping off the 
i t ir i ar as Possible, or always bringing 
the f 0n tbe s P ot - Afterwards remove 
againTtl and the ° n with a rag, rub 
finlll 6n l ery soaked with vinegar, 
Df e hainois Tk plum ' 3a £ 0 on a P iece 

^er? e rE e S f er 7 e , Steel from *ust.-To 
^Qutcll lrom rust dissolve I part 
*ith a ~ C « Bnd 16 P arts turpentine 
°oUed m r ttU ® heat , then add 8 parts 
l He he a t ' t a u -, mix h V bringing them to 
With i° lUn S water. Apply to the 
c ati k„ a brus b, the same as varnish. 

80l W inV emoved a g ain with a cloth 
Q ln turpentine. 

cf£J\ LEANING: 

^"Hs, ana Preserving Medals, 
m Sm all Iron Articles.— The 



199 

boil the article in i?f Cyan 1 1 . de - Th ™ 
water with alcohol ™h i* d . ls P la ce th* 
closet. Wu „ ii 1 ' a . nd drym a drvi™ 



When dry br us h y ^ t K a dryin £ 
brush and cover wf+K with a soft 

■ponlack" (any 
answer). * or tarnish will 



good transparent lacquer 
»nswer). H 

Instead of potassium cvanifU D i 
mixture of that and potaS, ™ , l° ne ' a 
may be used. Aft e P r 
way, delicate objects o F If 1 m \ hl3 
brittle. Anothiwayiton^Thr^f 5 
m molten sodium ca?bon^ U aS«^ 
the silver carbonate thus Cd 
acetic acid of SO per cent strength. Th 



possibl* 



process 
polish 

The potassium-cyanide process mav b 
used with all small iron objects Fo 
larger ones molten potassium rhodanid 
is recommended. This converts th 
iron oxide into iron sulphide that is eas- 
ily washed off and leaves the surface of s 
fine black color. 

Old coins may be cleansed by first 
immersing them in strong nitric acid and 
then washing them in clean water. Wipe 
them dry before putting away. 

To Clean Old Medals. — Immerse ii 
lemon juice until the coating of oxide 
completely disappeared; 24 hours Is gen- 
erally sufficient, but a longer time is not 
harmful. 

Steel Cleaner. — Smear the object wit! 
oil, preferably petroleum, and allow some 
days for penetration of the surface of the 
metal. Then rub vigorously with a piece 
of flannel or willow wood. Or, with a 

Saste composed of olive oil, sulphur 
owers, and tripoli, or of rotten stone 
and oil. Finally, a coating may be em- 
ployed, made of 10 parts of potassium 
cyanide and 1 part of cream of tartar; or 
25 parts of potassium cyanide, ^ with itfte 
addition of 55 parts of carbonate of lime 
and SO parts of white soap. 

Restoring Tarnished Gold.— 

Sodium bicarbonate. 20 ounces 
Chlorinated lime.... 1 ounce 

Common salt J jun* 

Water • • • • 

Mix well and c JP^^f L.Xn 
A very ^all quantrtj o 

is sufficient, and it ™l£\ MeB ma y 

cold or l^f' ffl ffll ilTi drop or two 
be brightened by ^utt mgj 

paoer. 



200 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS 



COBS 



Cleaning Copper. — 

j Use Armenian bole mixed into a 

paste with oleic acid. 

II —Rotten stone 1 P art 

Iron subcarbonate. . 3 parts 
Lard oil, a sufficient quantity. 

IE.— Iron oxide 10 parts 

Pumice stone 32 parts 

Oleic acid, a sufficient quantity. 

IV.— Soap, cut fine....... 16 parte 

Precipitated chalk . . 2 parts 

Jewelers' rouge 1 part 

Cream of tartar 1 part 

Magnesium carbonate 1 part 
Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the soap in the smallest quan- 
tity of water that will effect solution over 
a water bath. Add the other ingredients 
to the solution while still hot, stirring 
constantly. 

To Remove Hard Grease, Paint, etc., 
from Machinery.— To remove grease, 
paint, etc., from machinery add half a 
pound of caustic soda to 2 gallons ot 
water and boil the parts to be cleaned in 
the fluid. It is possible to use it several 
times before its strength is exhausted. 

Solutions for Cleaning Metals.— 

I. — Water 20 parts 

Alum 2 parts 

Tripoli 2 parts 

Nitric acid - 1 part 

II. — Water 40 parts 

Oxalic acid Mparts 

Tripoli 7 parts 

To Cleanse Nickel.— I. — Fifty parts of 
rectified alcohol; 1 part of sulphuric 
acid; 1 part of nitric acid. Plunge the 
piece in the bath for 10 to 15 seconds, 
rinse it off in cold water, and dip it next 
into rectified alcohol. Dry with a fine 
linen rag or with sawdust. 

II. — Stearine oil 1 part 

Ammonia water. .... 25 parts 

Benzine 50 parts 

Alcohol 75 parts 

Rub up the stearine with the ammonia, 
add the benzine and then the alcohol, 
and agitate until homogeneous. Put in 
wide-mouthed vessels and close care- 
fully. 

To Clean Petroleum Lamp Burners. — 
Dissolve in a quart of soft water an 
ounce or an ounce and a half of washing 
soda, using an old half-gallon tomato can. 
Into this put the burner after removing 
the wick, set it on the stove, and let it 
boil strongly for 5 or 6 minutes, then 
take out, rinse under the tap, and dry. 



Every particle of carbonaceous matt 
will thus be got rid of, and the burner h 
as clean and serviceable as new TV 
ought to be done at least every mon JJ. S 
but the light would be better if it wer 
done every 2 weeks. ~ 

Gold-Ware Cleaner. — 

Acetic acid % parts 

Sulphuric acid 2 parts 

Oxalic acid l p ar t 

Jewelers* rouge i partg 

Distilled water 200 parts 

Mix the acids and water and stir in the 
rouge, after first rubbing it up with a por- 
tion of the liquid. With a dean cloth 
wet with this mixture, go well over the 
article. Rinse off with hot water and 
dry. 

Silverware Cleaner.— Make a thin paste 
of levigated (not precipitated) chalk and 
sodium hyposulphite, in equal parts, 
rubbed up in distilled water. Apply 
this paste to the surface, rubbing well 
with a soft brush. Rinse in clear water 
and dry in sawdust. Some authorities 
advise the cleaner to let the paste dry oa 
the ware, and then to rub off and rinse 
with hot water. 

Silver-Coin Cleaner,-— Make a bath of 
10 parts of sulphuric acid and 90 parts of 
water, and let the coin lie in this until the 
crust of silver sulphide is dissolved. From 
5 to 10 minutes usually suffice. Rinse 
in running water, then rub with c soft 
brush and castile soap, rinse again, dry 
with a soft cloth, and then carefully rub 
with chamois. 

Cleaning Silver-Plated Ware. -Into 

a wide-mouthed bottle provided witn a 
good cork put the following mixture: 

Cream of tartar Mparts 

Levigated chalk J P a « s 

Alum 1 P ar .\ , 

Powder the alum and rub up wtbtgj 
other ingredients, and cork ~ T - < ' t %\ 
When required for use wet sufficient^ 
the powder and with soft hne& ™& r uge 
the article, being careful not ^ 
much pressure, as otherwise t 
layer of plating may be cut 111 [ea? 
Rinse in hot suds, and afterwards m ^ 
water, and dry in sawdust. ;f 
badly blackened with silver snip &n 
small, the article may be djppe" iiam e- 
instant in hydrochloric acid an j^ger 
diatelv rinsed in running water ^ s a re— 
articles may be treated as com ^ l0 
immersed for 2 or 3 ^^f^phm 
per cent aqueous solution 0 "\.j lvfi dped 
acid, or the surface may be rapiuv 




CLEANING . PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



, ,^ab carrying nitric acid and in- 
^ K it rinsed in running water. 
s tann> * 1U — 




W f!.7 solution ox causut 
a i L suds with a soft rag, and rinse in 
ffa ■ a water. If not then clean and 
fPjJf g dip into the following mixture: 

m Citric acid,. ........ 10 parts 

Aluminum sulphate . . I part 

Water 40 parts 

j0x. K inse in runll ing water- 
Britannia Metal Cleaner.— Rub first 
with iewelers' rouge made into a paste 
lith oil; wash in suds, rmsc, dry, and 
finish with chamois or wash leather. 

To Remove Ink Stains on Silver. — 
Silver articles in domestic use, and espe- 
cially silver or plated inkstands, fre- 
quently become badly stained with ink. 
These 'stains cannot be removed by ordi- 
nary processes, but readily yield to a 
paste of chloride of lime and water. Ja- 
velle water may he also used. 

Removing Egg Stains. — A pinch of table 
salt taken between the thumb and finger 
and rubbed on the spot with the end of 
the ringer will usually remove the darkest 
egg stain from silver. 

To Clean Silver Ornaments. — Make a 
strong solution, of soft soap and water, 
and in this boil the articles for a few min- 
utes—five will usually be enough. Take 
out, pour the soap solution into a basin, 
and as soon as the liquid has cooled down 
sufficiently to be borne by the hand, with 

* soft brush scrub the articles with it. 
ttinse m boiling water and place on a 
porous substance (a bit of tiling, a brick, 

* unglaaed earthenware) to dry. Fi- 
ffii? 1V ®, a u S ht ru bbing with a chamois. 

J ins treated look as bright as 



Articles tin 
new. 



kefru f ° r Iron Rust.— Articles at- 
clean a I rURt ma y be conveniently 
saturate J ^PP in S them into a well- 
Thel, t i. Solutl011 of stannic chloride. 
reeuS of tlme of the action must be 
the r u , a P eordin S to the thickness of 

su[a ce i t •* * Tule 12 to S4 kours wil1 
^cesn'rv* ■ i . ls essential to prevent an 
to atta. A C i ld : . n tbe bath > as this is liable 
tats hat k lr ° n itselL Af ter the ob- 
H^MK amoved from the bath 
Se S u <mtlv f lns ed with water, and sub- 
tJUickly "dr'^H ammonia, and then 
^ ein s to r, Greasing with vaseline 
P b )ecta Ttr^r?^ new formation of rust. 
0 ^semU j ed ln tms manner are said 

^W r w d i Silver - 

Weber proposed a diluted 




201 

alkali, and it has been found that after 
l " Lh. 
lat 

be an efficacious 



r pIcyW autlSy tt5T* ' 
loosened and the crecn t,l» ( t„. Uy " - 
Prt-h ha S been f o?ad tfe 'SSHSl 



er oa 



To Clean Polished Parts 0 f Machines 
— rutin a flask 1,000 nartq nf tw™i 
add I 80 parts of W^A^d fi£ 
cork the bottle and stand aside for a 

shake 6 %t yS '- S r mS - H an occasion! 
shake. I he mixture is now ready for 

Hfl £h T' ^ ake the bottle > Pour a 
little ot the liquid upon a woolen rae and 

rub evenly oyer the part to be cleaned- 
or apply with a brush. Set the article 
aside and, next day, rub it well with a 
dry, woolen rag. Every particle of rust, 
resimfied grease, etc., will disappear 
provided the article has not been neglected 
too long. In this case a further applica- 
tion of the oil will be necessary. If too 
great pressure has not been made, or the 
rubbing continued too long, the residual 
oil finally leaves the surface protected by 
a delicate layer of paraffine that will pre- 
vent rusting for a long time. 

To Clean Articles of Nickel. — Laj 

them for a few seconds in alcohol con- 
taining % per cent of sulphuric acid; re- 
move, wash in running water, rinse in 
alcohol, and rub dry with a linen cloth. 
This process gives a brilliant polish and 
is especially useful with plated articleson 
the plating of which the usual polishing 
materials act very destructively. The 
yellowest and brownest nickeled articles 
are restored to pristine brilliancy by 
leaving them in the alcohol and acid for 
15 seconds. Five seconds suffice ordi- 
narily. 

How to Renovate Bronzes.— For gilt 
work, first remove all grease, dirt, wax, 
etc., with a solution in water of potas- 
sium or sodium hydrate then dry, and 
with a soft rag apply the following. 
Sodium carbonate . . 7 parts 
|£S,~ceni poparts 

Go over every part ^«f> c S * 
brush to, get. into ^ us toff with a fine 
When this dries on, brus n on wim 

linen cloth or a suPP^^y be used: j 
Or the following P£ n d ££J ed above , 
Remove grease, etc., a. * rec « 

^-l^rinrtd e ^th S a brush dipped 



ui j *» u , f 7. with a brusn tuyF"-« 

? urfac r*-Srf t^P^rtl of alum, in 250 
xn a / 0 ^ t n er ° an d 65 P partsof nitr- 
Coon af ?he S gildinl reappear. 



trie acid, 
or the 



surface becomes bright, wash off, and 
dry in the direct sunlight. 

Still another cleaner is made of nitric 
acid 30 parts; aluminum sulphate, 4 
parts; distilled or rain water, 125 parts. 
Clean of grease, etc., as above, and apply 
the solution with a came s-bair pencil. 
Rinse off and dry in sawdust. hinaliy, 
some articles are best cleaned by im- 
mersing in hot soap suds and rubbing 
with a soft brush. Rinse in clear, hot 
water, using a soft brush to getthe residual 
suds out of crevices. Let dry, then brush 
by rubbing the gilt spots or places with a 
soft, linen rag, or a bit of chamois. _ _ 

There are some bronzes gilt with imi- 
tation gold and varnished Where the 
work is well done and the gilding has not 
been on too long, they will deceive even 
the practiced eye. The deception, how- 
ever may easily be detected by touching 
a spot on the gilt surface with a glass rod 
dipped in a solution of corrosive subli- 
mate. If the gilding is true no discolor- 
ation will occur, but if false a brown 
spot will be produced. 

To Clean a Gas Stove. — An easy meth- 
od of removing grease spots consists in 
immersing the separable parts for sev- 
eral hours in a warm lye, heated to about 
70° C. (158° F.), said lye to be made of 
9 parts of caustic soda and 180 parts of 
water. These pieces, together with the 
fixed parts of the stove, may be well 
brushed with this lye and afterwards 
rinsed in clean, warm water. The 
grease will be dissolved, and the stove 
restored almost to its original state. 

Cleaning Copper Sinks. — Make rot- 
ten stone into a stiff paste with soft soap 
and water. Rub on with a woolen rag, 
and polish with dry whiting and rotten 
stone. Finish with a leather and dry 
whiting. Many of the substances and 
mixtures used to clean brass will effec- 
tively clean copper. Oxalic acid is said 
to be the best medium for cleaning cop- 
per, but after using it the surface of the 
copper must be well washed, dried, and 
then rubbed with sweet oil and tripoli, or 
some other polishing agent. Otherwise 
the metal will soon tarnish again. 

Treatment of Cast-iron Grave Crosses. 
— The rust must first be thoroughly re- 
moved with a steel-wire brush. When 
this is done apply one or two coats of red 
lead or graphite paint. After this prim- 
ing has become hard, paint with double- 
burnt lampblack and equal parts of oil of 
turpentine and varnish. This coating 
ia followed by one of lampblack ground 
with coach varnish. Now paint the sin- 



gle portions with "mixtion" (o\U\ n 
oil) and gild as usual. Sueh crosS 
better when they are not altogeth^ 
black. Ornaments may be Tery wj 
treated in colors with oil paint and then 
varnished. The crosses treated in thk 
manner are preserved for many years 
but it is essential to use good exterior or 
coach varnish for varnishing, and not the 
so-called black varnish, which is mostly 
composed of asphalt or tar. * 

Cleaning Inferior Gold Articles.— The 
brown film which forms on low-quality 

fold articles is removed by coating with 
uming hydrochloric acid, whereupon 
they are brushed off with Vienna lime 
and petroleum. Finally, clean the ob- 
jects with benzine, rinse again in pure 
benzine, and dry in sawdust. 

To Clean Bronze. — Clean the bronze 
with soft soap; next wash it in plenty of 
water; wipe, let dry, and apply light en- 
caustic mixture composed of spirit of 
turpentine in which a small quantity of 
yellow wax has been dissolved. The en- 
caustic is spread by means of a linen or 
woolen wad. For gilt bronze, add 1 
spoonful of alkali to 3 spoonfuls of water 
and rub the article with this by means 
of a ball of wadding. Next wipe with a 
clean chamois, similar to that employed 
in silvering. 

How to Clean Brass and Steel.— To 
clean brasses quickly and economically, 
rub them with vinegar and salt or with 
oxalic acid. Wash immediately after 
the rubbing, and polish with tripoli and 
sweet oil. Unless the acid is washed oit 
the article will tarnish quickly. Cupper 
kettles and saucepans, brass andirons, 
fenders, and candlesticks and trays are 
best cleaned with vinegar and salt. 
Cooking vessels in constant use need OBJ 
to be well washed afterwards, ining 
for show— even pots and pans— n< 



iur biiuw — even jjuu " "~ . r i „_ 

the oil polishing, which gives a deep, 
rich, yellow luster, good for six montfl* 
Oxalic acid and salt should be emplo cd 
for furniture brasses— if it touC %;Je 
wood it onlv improves the tone. F 
the brasses Veil with a wet clot i, » 
polish thoroughly with oil and tripu 
Sometimes powdered rotten stone - 
better than the tripoli. Rub, ajg^JSS 
either with a dry cloth or leather, £ ^ 
there is no trace of oil. " he or . ^ 
cleaned must be freed «?3K5r Wa# 




\s to wash it very clean wi 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



203 



ammonia soapsuds, rinse well, dry 
* i t oil plentifully with sweet oil, and 
hy 7 thickly with powdered quicklime. 
du *i « time stay on 2 days, then brush 
M SJhSfeS W stiff Brush. Polish 
* flff * jlh fter brush, and rub with cloths 



it off 

jjS *hc° luster comes out. By leaving 



the Iin^ 0D . J 



iron and steel may he kept 



from rust aim oat indefinitely / 

"Before wetting any sort of bric-a-brac, 
A Psoeciallv bronzes, remove all the 
Sust possible: After dusting, wash well 
Wrong white soapsuds and ammonia, 
'Le elean, polish with just a suspicion 
S oil and rotten stone, and rub off after- 
wards every trace of the oil. Never let 
acid touch a bronze surface, unless to 
eat and pit it for antique effects. 

Composition for Cleaning Copper, 
Nickel, and other Metals.— Wool grease, 
46 parts, by weight; fire clay, 30 parts, 
by weight; paraffine, 5 parts, by weight; 
Canova wax, 5 parts, by weight; cocoa- 
nut oil, 10 parts, by weight; oil of mir- 
bane, 1 part, by weight. After mixing 
these different ingredients, which con- 
stitute a paste, -this is molded in order to 
give a cylindrical form, and introduced 
into a case so that it can be used like a 
stick of cosmetic. 

PutzPomade. — I. — Oxalic acid, 1 part; 
caput mortuum, 15 parts (or, if white 
pomade is desired, tripoli, 12 parts); 
powdered pumice stone, best grade, SO 
parts; palm oil, 60 parts; petroleum or 
oleine, 4 parts. Perfume with mirbane 
oil. 

II. — Oxalic; acid 1 part 

Peroxide of iron 

(jewelers' rouge). , 15 parts 

Rotten stone 20 parts 

Palm oil. 60 parts 

Petrolatum 5 parts 

Pulverize the acid and the rotten stone 
and mix thoroughly with the rouge, 
out to remove all grit, then make into a 
paste with the oil and petrolatum. A 
little nitro-benzol may be added to scent 
th e mixture. 

Hi.— Oleine 40 parts 

Ceresine 5 parts 

Tripoli. 40 parts 

Light mineral o i I 

(.U.870) 20 parts 

^ e h" the oleine, ceresine, and min- 
wal oil together, and stir in the tripoli; 
acx t, grind evenly in a paint mill. 

,?° Clean Gummed Parts of Ma- 
S^Fy— Boil about 10 to 16 parts of 

lirt. * oda or 100 P arts of soda 111 1,000 
water, immerse the parts to be 



cleaned in this for some time, or, better, 
boil them with it Then rinse and dry. 
For small shops this mode of cleaning 1 
doubtless the best. s 

To Remove Silver Plating, I — P u t 

sulphuric acid 100 parts and potassiui 
nitrate (saltpeter) 10 parts in a vessel 
of stoneware or porcelain, heated on the 
water bath. When the silver has left the 
copper, rinse the objects several times. 
This silver stripping bath may be used 
several times, if it is kept in a well-closed 
bottle. When it is saturated with silver 
decant the liquid, boil it to dryness, thei 
add the residue to the deposit, and melti 
the crucible to obtain the metal. 

II. — Stripping silvered articles of tl 
silvering may be accompli shed by the fol 
lowing mixture: Sulphuric acid, 60 c 
3 parts; nitric acid, 40° B., 1 part; he 
the mixture to about 166° F., and ii 
merse the articles by means of a copt 
wire. In a few seconds the acid mixtui 
will have done the work. A thorouf 
rinsing off is, of course, necessary. 

To Clean Zinc Articles. — In order 
clean articles of zinc, stir rye bran intc 
paste with boiling water, and add a hai 
ful of silver sand and a little vitrii 
Rub the article with this paste, rinse wit 
water, dry, and polish with a cloth. 

To Remove Rust from Nickel.— S me: 
the rusted parts well with grease (ord 
narv animal fat will do), and allow 
article to stand several days. If 
rust is not thick the grease and rust mi 
be rubbed off with a cloth dipped in an 
monia. If the rust is very deep, apply 
diluted solution of hydrochloric aci< 
taking care that the acid does not touch 
the metal and the rust may be easily 
robbed off. Then wash the article and 
polish in the usual way. 

Compound for Cleaning Brass. -To 
make I bras, ^«S£°S&* 



turpentine of equal parts, 
make a paste. 

To Clean Gilt 
ordinary drinking $***JZ>™ he piece to 

drops of^;3;S brush 
be cleaned repeatea j ^ artirle 

-E-BoS"»«" g o- alum - Ig JJ^Pg" 



Obiects.-I.-Into an 
dass pour aoout 20 
;rse the f 

iL: - »M ~ 

article 

with alcohol, and 



with sawdust. 

HI.— For cleaning 



picture 



frames. 



J804 CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



moldings, and, in fact, all kinds of gilded 
work, the best medium is liquor potassce, 
diluted with about 5 volumes of water. 
Dilute alcohol is also excellent. Methylated 
wood spirit, if the odor is not objectionable, 
answers admirably. 

To Scale Cast Iron. — To remove the 
scale from cast iron use a solution of 1 
part vitriol and 2 parts -water; after mix- 
ing, apply to the scale with a cloth rolled 
in the iorni of a brush, using enough to 
wet the surface well. After 8 or 10 hours 
wash off with water, when the hard, scaly 
surface will be completely removed- 
Cleaning Funnels and Measures. — 
Funnels and measures used for measur- 
ing varnishes, oils, etc., may be cleaned 
by soaking them in a strong solution of 
lye or pearlash. Another mixture for 
the same purpose consists of pearlash 
with quicklime in aqueous solution. 
The measures are allowed to soak in the 
solution for a short time, when the resin- 
ous matter of the paint or varnish is 
easily removed. A thin coating of pe- 
troleum lubricating oils may be removed, 
it is said, by the use of naphtha or petro- 
leum benzine. 

To Clean Aluminum. — I. — Aluminum 
articles are very hard to clean so they will 
have a bright, new appearance. This is 
especially the case with the matted or 
frosted pieces. To restore the pieces to 
brilliancy place them for some time in 
water that has been slightly acidulated 
with sulphuric acid. 

■ II — Wash the aluminum with coal-oil, 
gasoline or benzine, then put it in a con- 
centrated solution of caustic potash, and 
after washing it with plenty of water, 
dip it in the bath composed of § nitric 
acid and ^ water. Next, subject it to a 
bath of concentrated nitric acid, and 
finally to a mixture of rum and olive oil. 
To render aluminum capable of being 
worked like pure copper, $ of oil of tur- 
pentine and ■£ stearic acid are used. 
For polishing by hand, take a solution of 
30 parts of borax and 1,000 parts of 
water, to which a few drops of spirits of 
ammonia have been added. 

How to Clean Tarnished Silver.—!.— 
If the articles are only slightly tarnished, 
mix 3 parts of best washed and purified 
chalk and 1 part of white soap, adding 
wate ^ lill a thin paste is formed, which 
should be rubbed on the silver with a dry 
brush, till the articles are quite bright. 
As a substitute, whiting, mixed with caus- 
tic ammonia to form a paste, may be 
used. This mixture is very effective, but 
it irritates the eyes and nose. 



II— Place the silver articles 5, . 
aluminum p an in which has been pi ac S 
a water solution of about 2 per 
washing soda. Allow to remain in ft- 
solution until clean then remove 2 
rinse. An aluminum pan is essential 
HI. A solution of crystallized potas . 

k ~ s been recoil 



sium permanganate 
mended 
IV 



A grayish violet film which silver 
ware acquires from perspiration, can bp 
readily removed by means of ammonia 

V. — To remove spots from silver lav it 
for 4 hours in soapmakers' lye, then throw on 
fine powdered gypsum, moisten the latter 
with vinegar to cause it to adhere, dry 
near the fire, and wipe off. Next rub 
the spot with dry bran. This not only 
causes it to disappear, but gives extraor- 
dinary gloss to the silver. 

VI. — Cleaning with the usual fine 
powders is attended with some difficulty 
and inconvenience. An excellent result 
is obtained without injury to the silver by 
employing a saturated solution of hypo- 
sulphite of soda, which is put on with a 
brush or rag. The article is then 
washed with plenty of water. 

VII. — Never rise soap on silverware, 
as it dulls the luster, giving the article 
more the appearance of pewter than 
silver. When it wants cleaning, rub it 
with a piece of sof t leather and prepared 
chalk, made into a paste with pure water, 
entirely free from grit. 

To Clean Dull Gold. — I —Take 80 parts, 
by weight, of chloride of lime, and rub it 
up with gradual addition of water in a 
porcelain mortar into a thin, even paste, 
which is put into a solution of 80 parts, 
by weight, of bicarbonate of soda, and 20 
parts, by weight, of salt, in 3,000 parts, 
by weight, of water. Shake it, and let 
stand a few days before using. If *W 
preparation is to be kept for any lengt j 
of time the bottle should be placed, well 
corked, in the cellar. For use, lay the 
tarnished articles in a dish, pour toe 
liquid, which has previously been wei 
shaken, over them so as just to cover 
them, and leave them therein for a tew 
days. 

II.— Bicarbonate of soda. 31 P» r f s 

Chloride of lime 15.5 parts 

Cooking salt 1^ P ar f 

Water... P arts 

Grind the chloride of lime with a 



slain v<; s ' 



water to a thin paste, in a porce i— . , 
sel, and add the remaining chemical- 
Wash the objects with the aid ot a ■ , 
brush with the solution, rinse sjv 
times in water, ana ary in fine saw 



CLEANING F REPARATIONS AND METHODS 



205 



lni r Bronze Objects.— Employ 
C left h fhicorv mixed with water, so 
p^vderea - ^ wh , ch ia app hed 

£» t0 °, „*h After the brushing, rinse 
* ith j iivii the sun or near a stove. 
« .nine Gilded Bronzes.— L—Com- 
Cl6 fbV removing the spots of pease 
^wax with a little potash or soda dis- 
aIld j ■« water Let dry, and apply the 
so lr d -nl mixture with a rag: Carbonate 
tc t h Aa % whiting, 15 parts; alco- 

g f f°<si°) P arts; water ' 125 p -- 



When this coating is dry pass a fine linen 
wk or a piece of supple skin over it. 
The holl^v parts are cleaned with a 

br ?r h — After removing the grease spots 
]et dry and pass over all the damaged 
] p C rt T a p.nc.l dipped in the following 
Sure: Alum, % parts; mine acid, 65; 
SEmO I^rts. When the gi ding be- 
comes bright, wipe, and dry m the sun or 

near a fire. ; . 

Ill —Wash in hot water containing a 
little soda, dry, and pass oyer the gilding 
a pencil soaked in a liquid made of 30 
parts nitric acid, 4 parts of aluminum 
phosphate, and 125 parts of pure water. 
Drv in sawdust. , .... 

IV.—Immersc the objects m boiling 
soap water, and facilitate the action of 
the soap by rubbing with a soft brush; 
put the objects in hot water, brush them 
carefully, and let them dry in the air; 
when they are quite dry rub the shining 
parts only with an old linen cloth or a 
soft leather, without touching the others. 

Stripping Gilt Articles. — Degilding or 
stripping gilt articles may be done by at- 
taching the object to the positive pole of 
a battery and immersing it in a solution 
composed of 1 pound of cyanide dissolved 
in about 1 gallon of water. Desilvering 
may be effected in the same manner. 

To Clean Tarnished Zinc. — Apply with 
a fag a mixture of 1 part sulphuric acid 
"With IS parts o£ water. Rinse the zinc 
^ith. clear water. 

Cleaning Pewter Articles. — Pour hot 
'ye of wood ashes upon the tin, throw on 
sand, and rub with a hard, woolen rag, 
£ a t felt, or whisk until all particles of dirt 
JjfVe been dissolved. To polish pewter 
Plates it is well to have the turner make 
s "mlar 



bran after use and cleaned perfectly 
New pewter is polished with a^aste It 
whiting and brandy, rubbing the dishes 
with it untd the mass becomes dry 

To Clean Files.— Files which have be- 
come clogged with tin or lead are 
cleaned by dipping for a few seconds intc 
concentrated nitric acid. To remove 
iron filings from the file cuts, a bath of 
blue vitriol is employed. After the files 
have been rinsed in water they are like- 
wise dipped in nitric acid. File-ridgea 
closed up by zinc are cleaned by im- 
mersing the files in diluted sulphuric 
acid. Such as have become filled with 
copper or brass are also treated with 
nitric acid, but here the process has to be 
repeated several times. The files should 
always be rinsed in water after the treat- 
ment, brushed with a stiff brush, and 
dried in sawdust or by pouring alcohol 
over them, and letting it burn off on the 
file. 



a ^A ar wooden forms fitting the plates, 
Jjjd to rub them clean this way. Next 
" e y are rinsed with clean water and 

on a table wittl a clean Vinen cover 

tV^tnen they are left to dry without 

Pea* 8 t ^ lc . ne(i ' otherwise spots will ap- 
^ e r ' ^ scouring is not necessary so 



Scale Pan Cleaner.— About the quick- 
est cleaner for brass scale pans is a solu- 
tion of potassium bichromate in dilute 
sulphuric acid, using about 1 part of 
chromate, in powder, to 3 parts of acid 
and 6 parts of water. In this imbibe a 
cloth wrapped around a stick (to protect 
the hands), and with it rub the pans. 
Do this at tap or hydrant, so that no time 
is lost in placing the pan in running 
water after having rubbed it with the 
acid solution. For pans not very badly 
soiled rubbing with ammonia water and 
rinsing is sufficient. 

Tarnish on Electro-Plate Goods - 
This tarnish can be removed bydippmg 
the article for from 1 to 15 f l J™ 
kt is until the tarnish ^ha ^ 
removed— m a pickle oi vu ' g 
composition: Ram water 2 g ^ 
potassium cya mde * pounfl- or 

together, and fil '* to * f^ti ? cle, after 

and close tightly. The £ 

having been immersed rnu 

out and thoroughly nn»o 

waters, then. dried TO^^ be speed- 

dust Tarnish on ; eweiry g the 

cvamde is not 

will corrode the goods. 

0IL _, GREASE, PAIKT-SPOT ERAP 
ICATORS: t Erad icators.- 
Grease-andFaint * 500 par ts 
I — Benzol 50 o parts 



J806 CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



Dissolve the soap in the -warm water, 
using from 50 to 60 parts. Mix the ben- 
zol and benzine, and add the soap solu- 
tion, a little at a time, shaking up well 
after each addition. If the mixture is 
slow in emulsifying, add at one time from 
SO to 100 parts of warm water, and shake 
violently. Set the emulsion aside for a 
few days, or until it separates, then de- 
cant the superfluous water, and pour the 
residual pasty mass, after stirring it up 
well, into suitable boxes. 

II. — Soap spirit 100 parts 

Ammonia solution, 

10 per cent. . 25 parts 

Acetic ether.. 15 parts 

HI. — Extract of quillaia . 1 part 

Borax 1 part 

Ox gall, fresh 6 parts 

Tallow soap 15 parts 

Triturate the quillaia and borax to- 
gether, incorporate the ox gall, and, 
finally, add the tallow soap and mix 
thoroughly by kneading. The product 
is a plastic mass, which may be rolled 
into sticks or put up into boxes. 

Removing Oil Spots from Leather. — 
To remove oil stains from leather, dab 
the spot carefully with spirits of sal am- 
moniac, and after allowing it to act for 
a while, wash with clean water. This 
treatment may have to be repeated a few 
times, taking care, however, not to injure 
the color of the leather. Sometimes the 
spot may be removed very simply by- 
spreading the place rather thickly with 
butter and letting this act for a few hours. 
N . ext sc . ra P e the butter with the point 
of a knife, and rinse the stain with soap 
and lukewarm water. 

To Clean Linoleum.— Rust spots and 
other stains can be removed from lino- 
leum by rubbing with steel chips. 

T° Remove Putty, Grease, etc., from 
Mate Glass.— To remove all kinds of 
greasy materials from glass, and to leave 
the latter bright and clean, use a paste 
made of benzine and burnt magnesia of 
such consistence that when the mass is 
pressed between the fingers a drop of 
benzine will exude. With this mixture 
and a wad of cotton, go over the entire 
surface of the glass, rubbing it well. 
HrvU U bmg \ S Usual] y sufficient. After 
r2l S ' °- f the su b S tance left in the 
ETXl, ' 1S - ea , S , ily remove d by brush- 

«4 J™« a S - Ultable brush - Tlic same 

m?rmr,l° n i 13 VBr y USeful for cleaning 
nwrors and removing grease stains from 
oooks, papers, etc. 



Removing Spots from Furniture 
White spots on polished tables are r T 
moved m the iollowing manner: Coat tlT 
spot with oil and pour on a rag » 
drops Of mixtura balsamic* 0 l eosa * 
(another name tor P me Oil) and ™\ 
on the spot, which will disappear in, 
mediately. m " 

To Remove Spots from Drawings 
etc.— Place soapstone, fine meerschaum 
shavings, amianthus, or powdered mai? 
nesia on the spot, and, if necessary 1» T 
on white filtering paper, saturating it 
with peroxide of hydrogen. AJlow this 
to act for a few hours, and remove the 
application with a brush. If necessary 
repeat the operation. In this manner 
black coffee spots were removed from a 
valuable diagram without erasure by 
knife or rubber. 

WATCHMAKERS' AND JEWELERS' 
CLEANING PREPARATIONS: 
To Clean the Tops of Clocks in Re- 
pairing. — Sprinkle whiting on the top. 
Pour good vinegar over this and rub 
vigorously. Rinse in clean water and 
dry slowly in the sun or at the fire. A 
good polish will be obtained. 

To Clean Watch Chains.— Gold or 
silver watch chains can be cleaned with 
a very excellent result, no matter whether 
they be matt or polished, by laying them 
for a few seconds in pure aqua ammonia; 
they are then rinsed in alcohol, and 
finally shaken in clean sawdust, free from 
sand. Imitation gold and plated chains 
are first cleaned in benzine, then rinsed 
in alcohol, and afterwards shaken in dry 
sawdust. Ordinary chains are first 
dipped in the following pickle: Pure 
nitric acid is mixed with concentrated 
sulphuric acid in the proportion of 10 
parts of the former to 2 parts of the latter; 
a little tabic salt is added. The chains 
are boiled in this mixture, then rinsed 
several times in water, afterwards in 
alcohol, and finally dried in sawdust. 

Cleaning Brass Mountings on Clock 
Cases, etc.— The brass mountings are 
first cleaned of dirt by dipping Ihem tor 
a short time into boding soda lye, 



next are pickled, still warm, if P 0 ^ 1 
in a mixture consisting of nitric a"" 



hie, 
cid, 60 
>uking 



parts; sulphuric acid, 40 parts; cool 
salt, 1 part; and shining soot (lamp- 
black), | part, whereby they acquire* 
handsome golden-yellow coloring. _ 
pickling mixture, however, must not v , 



ployed immediately after pouring 
the acids, which causes a strong a - . 
tion of heat, but should settle for at ^ 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 

the original color 



207 



-This makes the articles hand- 
i ^ d uniform. After the dip- 
5 ° mer *liP objects are rinsed in plenty of 
P ing ter and dried on a hot, iron plate, 
^ e * & Mhe same time warmed for lac- 
an d a* gj n ce the pieces would be 
quering- tliick an j unev enly in pure 
j aCf ,ucrea diluted with alcohol, 

iold varnish sufficing for 10 
1 W alcohol. Into this liquid dip the 
p ir n L'rt previously warmed and dry 
ffS&S* ^ hotplate, 
ftilt Zinc Clocks.— It frequently hap- 
nTthat clocks of gilt zinc become 
p Ld with green spots. To remove 
IS spots the following process is used: 
S3 a small wad of cotton in alkali and 
rub it on the spot. The green color will 
^appear at once, but the gliding being 
°;f a black spot will remain. Wipe 
off well to remove all traces ot the alkali. 
To replace the gilding, put on, by means 
of liquid gum arabic, a little bronze pow- 
der of the color of the gilding % The 
powdered bronze is applied dry with the 
aid of a brush or cotton wad. When the 
gilding of the clock has become black or 
dull from age, it may be revived by im- 
mersion in a bath of cyanide of potas- 
sium, but frequently it suffices to wash it 
with a soft brush in soap and water, in 
which a little carbonate of soda has been 
dissolved. Brush the piece in the lather, 
rinse in clean water, and dry in rather 
hot sard list. The piece should be dried 
well inside and outside, as moisture will 
cause it to turn black. 

To Clean Gummed Up Springs. — 

Dissolve caustic soda in warm water, 
place the spring in the solution and leave 
it there for about one half hour. Any 
ou still adhering may now easily be 
taken off with a hard brush; next, dry the 
ynng with a clean cloth. In this man- 
ner gummed up parts of tower clocks, 
oi u etC '' ma y be quickly and thor- 
"^ly cleaned, and oil paint may be 
^teoved from metal or wood. The lye 
th« u but free fror| i danger, nor are 
steel parts attacked by it 

Goh! C 'i ean Soldered Watch Cases.— 

caJ»\ S ly^\ and other metallic watch 
Poii ♦ m soldering have been es- 
Phuri -j , at ' are laid in diluted sul- 
^ateS V M P art acid to 1( > to 15 parts 
ing thi* .* ree them from oxide. Heat- 

Pushed ■ 

fith oil 7 ith P° w dered tripoli moistened 
bv \ 10 re move the pale spots caused 
and boiling, and to restore 



e cleaning proe- 
are then well rinsed 
Gold cases are next 



ished after boi£ g , ^lZtlTJ a t 



rouge 
)i' 

dipped in beer 

A Simple Way to Clean 



a bit 



of" cotton the s'iie of C l° C h £ 0 'r,% Take 
dip it in kerosene and p ace 5 
floor of the clock, in the corner 1 
door of the dock, and wait 3 or 4 days 
The clock will be like a new .one-and 
if you look inside you will find the cotton 
batting black with dust. The fumes 
the oil loosen the particles of dust a 
they fall, thus cleaning the clock. 

To Restore the Color of a Gold or Gil 
Dial. — Dip the dial for a few seconds i 
the following mixture: Half an ounce < 
cyanide of potassium is dissolved in 
quart of hot water, and 2 ounces o 
strong ammonia, mixed with J an oune 
of alcohol, are added to the solution. O 
removal from this bath, the dial shoul 
immediately be immersed in warm water, 
then brushed with soap, rinsed, an 
dried in hot boxwood dust. Or it ma 
simply be immersed in dilute nitric aei 
but in this case any painted figures wil 
be destroyed. 

A Bath for Cleaning Clocks.— In a 
enameled iron or terra- cotta vess 
pour 2,000 parts of water, add 50 par 
of scraped Marseilles soap, 80 to 10 
parts of whiting, and a small cup < 
spirits of ammonia. To hasten the pro 
ess of solution, warm, but do not alio 

to boil. ,. , ,1 

If the clock is very dirty or much ox 
dized, immerse the pieces m the ba 
warm, and as long as necessary, 
them out with a skimmer o 
,d Dour over them some ben 

zine, lettin" 
vessel. Tnis 



while 
Take 

strainer, and pour ----- . TT1Tlf , 
.letting tie Hqmd Ml ojto 



being; decanted 
tied can be used indefinitely 

If the bath has too muct ^alkali or J 
used when too hot, it ma| a « 
polish and render it did g oi 
obviated by trying *f*$*^ f re not 

Sju^by the^lkali, even when pure- 

To Remove a 

Dial.— Oil of *P\rr letter or numocr 
emp loyedfor era^g alett ^ 



Figure or Waiw from 



em pi"j cu * — - ma y\e- into a paste njv 
Enamel Powder m^f 1 ^ ^P 

water, oil, or tu ^P e ^ l nllld be previous!: 



this purpose 
levigated so as — 
leviM^ rpu e powder 
fineness. ' F 



hould be previoi 



fine. 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



wood or ivory. The best method is to 
employ diamond powder. Take a little 
of the powder, make into a paste with 
fine oil, on the end of a copper Pusher 
tbesurface of which has been fresh y hied 
and slightly rounded. The marks will 
rapidly disappear when rubbed with this. 
The surface is left a little dull; it may be 
rendered bright by rubbing with the 
same powder mixed with a greater quan- 
tity of oil, and applied with a stick ot 
peg wood. Watchmakers will do well to 
try on disused dials several degrees ot 
fineness of the diamond powder. 

Cleaning Pearls.— Pearls turn yellow 
in the course of time by absorbing per- 
spiration on account of being worn in the 
hair, at the throat, and on the arms. 
There are several ways of rendering 
them white again. _ 

I. — The best process is said to be to 
put the pearls into a bag with wheat bran 
and to heat the bag over a coal fire, with 
constant motion. 

II. — Another method is to bring 8 
parts each of well-calcined, finely pow- 
dered lime and wood charcoal, which 
has been strained through a gauze sieve, 
to a boil with 500 parts of pure rain 
water, suspend the pearls over the steam 
of the boiling water until they are 
warmed through, and then boil them in 
the liquid for 5 minutes, turning fre- 
quently. Let them cool in the liquid, 
take them out, and wash off well with 
clean water. 

III. — Place the pearls in a piece of fine 
linen, throw salt on them, and tie them 
up. Next rinse the tied-up pearls in 
lukewarm water until all the salt has 
been extracted, and dry them at an ordi- 
nary temperature. 

IV. — The pearls may also be boiled 
about \ hour in cow's milk into which a 
little cheese or soap has been scraped; 
take them out, rinse off in fresh water, 
and dry them with a clean, white cloth. 

V. — Another method is to have the 
pearls, strung on a silk thread or wrapped 
U P in thin gauze, mixed in a loaf of bread 
of barley flour and to have the loaf baked 
well in an oven, but not too brown. 
When cool remove the pearls. 

yi- — Hang the pearls for a couple of 
minutes in hot, strong, wine vinegar or 
highly diluted sulphuric acid, remove, 
and rinse them in water. Do not leave 
"to. too long in the 
be injured by it. 



"'^ mem m water. Uo not leave 

them too long in the acid, otherwise they 
will be injured by it. 

GLASS CLEANING: 



tw,S i a £ mg Reparation for Glass with 
Metal Decorations.— Mix 1,000 parts of 
denatured st)irit «6 per cent) with 150 



parts, by weight, of ammonia- go t,- 
of acetic ether; 15 parts of ethvlic Jit 
200 parts of Vienna lime; 950 parts j 
bolus; and 550 parts of oleinef 
this mixture both glass and metal can V. 
quickly and thoroughly cleaned. It ' 
particularly recommended for s h U 
windows ornamented with metal. ° W 
Paste for Cleaning Glass.— 

Prepared chalk 6 poUlld 

Powdered French 

P , chal K- H pounds 

Phosphate calcium. . . pounds 
Quillaia bark. .. .. p ounds 
Carbonate ammonia.. 18 ounces 

Rose pink 6 ounces 

Mix the ingredients, in fine powder 
and sift through muslin. Then mix 
with soft water to the consistency of 
cream, and apply to the glass by means 
of a soft rag or sponge; allow it to dry on 
wipe off with a cloth, and polish with 
chamois. 

Cleaning Optical Lenses. — For this 
purpose a German contemporary rec- 
ommends vegetable pith. The medulla 
of rushes, elders, or sunflowers is cut out, 
the pieces are dried and pasted singly 
alongside of one another upon a piece of 
cork, whereby a brush-like apparatus h 
obtained, which is passed over the sur- 
face of the lens. For very small lenses 
pointed pieces of elder pith arc em- 
ployed. To dip dirty and greasy lenses, 
into oil of turpentine or ether and rub 
them with a linen rag, as has been pro- 
posed, seems hazardous, because the Can- 
ada balsam with which the lenses are 
cemented might dissolve. 

To Remove Glue from Glass.— If glue 
has simply dried upon the glass hot 
water ought to remove it. If, however, 
the spots are due to size (the ^latmous 
wash used by painters) when dried tney 
become very refractory and recoup 
must be had to chemical means f° r . tneir 
removal. The commonest size being 
solution of gelatin, alum, and r05in ^ 
solved in a solution of soda and c° 
bined with starch, hot solutions ot cau 
tic soda or of potash may be u3C £; tei 
that fails to remove them, try « ^ 
hydrochloric, sulphuric, or any fl 
stronger acids. If the spots st, 1 re 
some abrasive powder (Hour w . j 
must be used and the glass * e P° aJjS 0 f 
with jewelers' rouge applies Dy , var ied 
a chamois skin. Owing to tn« ojjJy 
nature of sizes used the above ar 
suggestions. . jj. 

Cleaning Window Panes. x _ siso ng 
luted nitric acid about as stron,, 




CLEANING PREPARATIONS AND METHODS 



„ n d pass it over Ihe glass pane, 
vinegar* a m i nu te and throw on 
,ea / e rS 7 ed whiting, but just enough to 
P BlveI ff riiissing sound. Now rub both 
ibe band over the whole pane and 



\V1 



r'itf 1 •{£ a dry rag. Rinse off with 

P r^ter and alittle alcohol and polish 

clean"' c i ear . Repeat the process on 

<b>' a f , The nitric acid removes 

the other &av. 



Kmirities which have remained on 
jt'Zs at the factory, and even with 
inferior panes a good appearance is ob- 
tained. 

To Clean Store "Windows.— For clean- 
ino the large panes of glass of store wm- 
£a and also ordinary show cases, a 
semiliquid paste may be employed 
made of calcined magnesia and punned 
benzine. The glass should be rubbed 
with a cotton rag until it is brilliant. 

Cleaning Lamp Globes. — Pour 2 spoon- 
fuls of a slightly heated solution of potash 
into the globe, moisten the whole surface 
with it, and rub the stains with a .fine 
linen rag; rinse the globe with clean 
water and carefully dry it with a fine, soft 
doth. 

To Clean Mirrors. — Rub the mirror 
with a hall of soft paper slightly damp- 
ened with methylated spirits, then with a 
duster on which a little whiting has been 
sprinkled, and finally polish with clean 
paper or a wash leather. This treatment 
will make, the glass beautifully bright. 

To Clean Milk Glass. — To remove oil 
spots from milk glass panes and lamp 
globes, knead burnt magnesia with ben- 
zine to a plastic mass, which must be 
kept in a tight-closing bottle. A little of 
™s substance rubbed on the spot with a 
linen rag will make it disappear. 

To Remove Oil-Paint Spots from 
ss. If the window panes have been 
iX tt L with oil P aint in painting 
IS, j , Spots are > of course, easily re- 
W T llle wet When they have 
jome dry the operation is more dim- 
Dart, ™ Q ol a nd turpentine in equal 
Use iT* Sp ] nt of sal ammoniac should be 
over it ■ , tcn the P aint - After that go 
*iU il. h Chalk Polishing with salt 
gratpt remove paint spots. The salt 
*io2w 0lnewhat ' bllt " is ™t hard 
subset, , f ause scrat ches in the glass; a 
atll nsahi P° ll shing with chalk is also 
ia W it ' a f the dr ymg of the salt might 
Paint sn f g , ' ^or scratching off sof t 
Ca Hn ot i sheet zitlc must be used, as it 

30 "ne ss x age i the glass on account ofits 
^eso paii j tne case °f silicate paints 
caned weather-proof coatings) the 



209 

c P a a u n " these P^ed, be- 

thc glass. Rubbing ^ the PO^h of 
brown soap d £so a loodVa^f", ^ 
ing the spots, but carV rn.,Tt E i ^ mo T~ 
nnsing-ofl that th " IStoi l in 
not acted upon. l0w iramea are 

. Removing Silver Stains.— The folW 
ing solution will remove silver 
from the hands, and also front W S 
linen, or cotton goods : woolen, 

Mercuric chloride, ... i part 
Ammonia muriate., 1 part 

rp , Water 8 parts 

The compound is poisonous. 

MISCELLANEOUS CLEANING METH- 
ODS AND PROCESSES : 
Universal Cleaner. — 

Green soap 20 to 25 parts 

Boiling water 750 parts 

Liquid ammonia, 

caustic 30 to 40 parts 

Acetic ether 20 to 30 parts 

Mix. 

To Clean Playing Cards.— Slightly 
soiled playing cards may be made clear 
by rubbing them with a soft rag dipped 
in a solution of camphor. Very little of 
the latter is necessary. 

To Remove Vegetable Growth from 
Buildings. — To remove moss and lichen 
from stone and masonry, apply water 
in which 1 per cent of carbolic acid has 
been dissolved. After a few hours the 
plants can be washed off with water. 

Solid Cleansing Compound.— The basis 
of most of the solid grease eradicators 
is benzine and the simplest form is a 
benzine jelly made by shaking 3 ounces 
of tincture of quillaia (soap bark) with 
enough benzine to make 16 ^donnce^ 
Benzine may also be solidified by the use 
of a soap with addition of an excess 
alkali, formulas in which soaps are 
used in this way follow: 
I._Co C oanut- 0 il soap. J 

Ammonia water. . . ^ " UiU 
Solution of potas- . flui(louncei 

sium • ■ ; ■ ^ 

Water enough to ^ f , uidounces 

Di^he soap with the aid of heat 



the water. . . jj j j n small por- 
If the benzine is aocieo in i n r. A „ 

„ons, and thorougt 



If the benzine is au "~.. .. j s i fluid- 
tions, and th oroupU, >jfi itated^J 
urines of the above - henzme. 



210 



CLEANING PREPARATIONS— COFFEE 



II — Castife soap, white. 3 J av. ounces 

Water, boiling 81 fluidounces 

Water of ammonia 5 fluidrachms 
Benzine enough to 

make 16 fluidounces 

Dissolve the soap in the water, and 
when cold, add the other ingredients. 

To Clean Oily Bottles.— Use 2 heaped 
tabiespoonfuls (for every quart of capac- 
ity) of fine sawdust or wheat bran, and 
shake well to cover the interior surface 
thoroughly; let stand a few minutes and 
then add about a gill of cold water. It 
the bottle be then rotated m a horizontal 
position, it will usually be found clean 
after a single treatment. In the case or 
drying oils, especially when old, the bot- 
tles should be moistened inside with a 
little ether, and left standing a few hours 
before the introduction of sawdust 
This method is claimed to be more rapid 
and convenient than the customary one 
of using strips of paper, soap solution, 
etc. 

Cork Cleaner. — Wash in 10 per cent 
solution of hydrochloric acid, then im- 
merse in a solution of sodium hypo- 
sulphite and hydrochloric acid. Finally 
the corks are washed with a solution of 
soda and pure water. Corks containing 
oil or fat cannot be cleaned by this 
method. 

To Clean Sponges. — Rinse well first in 
very weak, warm, caustic-soda lye, then 
with clean water, and finally leave the 
sponges in a solution of bromine in water 
until clean. They will whiten sooner if 
exposed to the sun in the bromine water. 
Then repeat the rinsings in weak lye 
and clean water, using the latter till all 
smell of bromine has disappeared. Dry 
quickly and in the sun if possible. 



To Clean Leather Chairs. — Thor- 
oughly beat the whites of three eggs, 
then with a piece of soft flannel cloth 
rub the beaten whites into the leather 
of the chair seat. The leather will soon 
be clean and will shine as if new. Lamp 
black may be added if the leather is 
black. 

To Clean or Flush Toilets. — Mix 
together 1 pound common washing soda 
in powdered form with 3 ounces of 
caustic soda. This can be sprinkled in 
the bowl of the toilet, letting it remain 
in it for several hours. A little water to 
moisten the same should be used. 



To Clean Waste Pipes.— Simple i n 
expensive method method of dearnW fT 
pipe is as follows: Just before retirin 
at night pour into the pipe enough Um& 
potash (not soda) lye of 36° strength t 
nil the "trap," as it is called, or W 
portion of the pipe just below the outlet 
About a pint will suffice for a wash 
stand, or a quart for a bath-tub or 
kitchen sink. Be sure that no water runs 
into it till next morning. During the 
night the lye will change all of the offal 
in the pipe into soft soap, and the first 
current of water in the morning will 
remove it entirely, and leave the pipe as 
clean as new. Two applications of the 
lye should be enough to cure any case. 
The so-called potash lye sold in small tin 
cans in the shops is not recommended for 
this purpose; it is quite commonly mis- 
named, and is called caustic soda, which 
makes a hard soap. That may block up 
the pipe even worse than the material 
it was desired to remove. 

To Clean Windshields. — Use equal 
parts of denatured alcohol and ether. 
Apply this mixture to the glass with a 
clean woolen cloth. Rub briskly, then 
sprinkle a little of jeweler's rouge upon 
a piece of chamoise skin and polish. The 
result will be that the glass will shine 
like crystal. 

COFFEE, SUBSTITUTES FOR. _ 

I. — Acorn, — From acorns deprived of 
their shells, husked, dried, and roasted. 

II. — Bean.— Horse beans roasted along 
with a little honey or sugar. 

III. — Beet Root.— From the yellow 
beet root, sliced, dried in a kiln or oven, 
and ground with a little coffee. 

IV. —Dandelion. — From <*? Ilde 3 
roots, sliced, dried, roasted, and ground 
with a little caramel. „ T ; n d- 

AU the above are roasted, before grina 
ing them, with a little fat or lard. I ™ 
Which are larger than coffee berries £ 
cut into sma 11 slices before being a ■ 
They possess none of the e^laratj^ 
properties or medicinal virtues 
genuine coffee. i ,]. 

V. -Chicory. -This is a common aa ^ 
terant. The roasted root is p«P HceS , 
cutting the full-grown root into - 
and exposing it to heat in ironcyj. 
along with about U per cent u ^ 
cent of lard, in a similar w *£ n j to 
adopted for coffee. When gro ■ ^j. 
powder in a mill it constitutes 



COFFEE— COLD AND 



. so generally employed both 
Z a submit ute t 



♦ The addition of 1 part of 
** U K b roasted chicory to 10 or 12 
S° f coffee f° rmS a m i xture which 
P arts K fl vpraee of a fuller flavor, and 
K Sa ,ner color than that furnished by 
of a Q ee f. "" 



J jflpner coioi — t 

ofa ,nual quantity of pure or unmixed 
an cq this way a less quantity of 
"°J e f'maV bo used," but it should be re- 
offeemav -rticle substituted 



coffee- 

~ tttiV DC UBWi m«» ™ ~~ 

C ° | P red that the article substituted 
P,Tt does not possess in any degree the 
1 , iar exciting, soothing, and hunger- 
f£S properties of that valuable prod- 
S T The use, however, ot a larger 
^'portion of chicory than that just 
limed imparts to the beverage an in- 
•nid flavor, intermediate between that 
ff treacle and licorice; while the con- 
tinual use of roasted chicory, or highly 
chicorbed coffee, seldom fails to weaken 
the powers of digestion and derange the 
bowels. 

COFFEE CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

COFFEE EXTRACTS: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

COFFEE SYRUPS: 
See Syrups. 

COFFEE FOR THE SODA FOUN- 
TAIN: 

See Beverages. 

COIL SPRING: 

See Steel. 

COIN CLEANING: 

od^ ^ leaning -Preparations and Meth- 

COINS, IMPRESSIONS OF: 

»ee Matrix Mass. 

COIN METAL: 

See Alloys. 

COLAS: 
Se e Veterinary Formulas. 

Cold a nd Cough Mixtures 

to ugS e 7 v SyrUp '~ The simplest form of 
5 >' r "P o f g ? od kee P in g quality is 

^iiiiim n M • , ch erry containing am- 
to each t " lde ln the dose oE ^ grains 
Coi »IH)unT Sp °" nful - Most of th " e other 
^oae trT, J contain ' ingredients that are 
t0 Und "go fermentation. 



Hp 



ipecacuanha wine 
gPint of anise 
kyrup ' 



1 fluidounee 
1 fluidrachm 
16 fluidounces 



COUGH MIXTURES 211 

Syrup of squill a a -j 

1 incture of Tol'n " I ^lrlouncea 

Distilled w at e r ^^chm* 

enough to make 30 fluidounces 
11 • — Heroin... R 

Arorautic sulphur'- gPamS 

ie acid .... i i a - i 

Concentrated acid 1 fluidou ^e S 

rv m t -n S ^ 011 ° f roses 4 n^idounces 
D stilled water. .. 5 fluidounces 

Oxymel of squill., i 0 fluidounces 

*luid extract of 

wild cherry.. .. 4 fluidounces 

? x Tmel 10 fluidounces 

£y™p 10 fluidouneea 

Cochineal, a sufficient quantity. 

Benzoic-Acid Pastilles. — 

Benzoic acid 105 parts 

Rhatany extract .... 525 parts 

Tragacanth 35 parts 

Sugar 140 parts 

The materials, in the shape of pow- 
ders, are mixed well and sufficient fruit 
paste added to bring the mass up to 4,500 
parts. Roll out and divide into lozenges 
weighing 20 grains each. 

Cough Balsam with Iceland Moss.— 

Solution o£ morphine 

acetate IS parts 

Sulphuric acid, dilute 12 parts 

Cherry-laurel water. 12 parts 
Orange-flower water, 

triple 24 parts 

Syrup, simple 128 parts 

Glycerine 48 parts 

Tincture of saffron. . 8 parts 
Decoction of Iceland 

moss 112 parts 

Mix, Dose: One teaspoonful. 

Balsamic Cough Syrup.— 

Balsam of Peru J drachms 

Tincture of Tola..-. 4 drachms 
Camphorated tincture g 

of opium v 

Powdered extract He- ^ 

once..- - 4 OU nce3 

Syr up squill.. 

Svrup dextrine (glu- 
"cose) sufficient to ^ 

make.. "'f'ppru to the tine- 
Add the balsam of Peru t 
tures, and in a mortar rub up ^ 

of licorice with the sy P^ ^ ^ 
trether and direct 
Spoonful doses. 

lowing mixture is a spray 



212 COLD AND COUGH MIXTURES— CONDIMENTS 



in the sick room in cases of whooping 
cough: 

Thymol 1.0 

Tincture of eucalyptus. 30.0 
Tincture of benzoin .... 30.0 

Alcohol 100.0 

Water enough to make 1000-0 
Mis. Pour some of the fixture on a 
cloth and hold to mouth so that the mix- 
ture is inhaled, thereby giving relief. 

Expectorant Mixtures. — 
I.— Ammon. chloride. 1 drachm 

Potass, chlorate.. 30 grains 

Paregoric 2 fluidrachms 

Syrup of ipecac. . . 2 fluidrachms 
Syrup wild cherry 

enough to make 2 fluidounces 

Doser One teaspoonful. 

II.— Potass, chlorate.. 1 drachm 

Tincture guaiac . . 31 drachms 

Tincture rhubarb. 3 i drachms 
Syrup wild cherry 

enough to make 3 fluidounces 

Dose: One teaspoonful. 

Eucalyptus Bonbons for Coughs. — 

Eucalyptus oil 5 parts 

Tartaric acid 15 parts 

Extract of malt. ... 24 parts 

Cacao 100 parts 

Peppermint oil ... . 1 .4 parts 

Bonbon mass 2,203 parts 

Mix and make into bonbons weighing 
30 grains each. 

COLD CREAM: 

See Cosmetics. 

COLIC IN CATTLE: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

COLLODION. 

Turpentine 5 parts 

Ether and alcohol. ... 10 parts 

Collodion 94 parts 

Castor oil 1 part 

Dissolve the turpentine in the ether 
and alcohol mixture [in equal parts) and 
filter, then add to the mixture of collo- 
dion and castor oil. This makes a good 
elastic collodion. 

See also Court Plaster, Liquid. 

COLOGNE : 

See Perfumes. 

COLOGNE FOR HEADACHES: 

See Headaches. 

COLORS: 

See Dyes and Pigments. 

COLORS, FUSIBLE ENAMEL: 
See Enameling. 



COLORS TO SET IN FABRIC 

The colors of fabrics or other J\ 
rials of any kind may bp. set hv i e " 
the article in the following solution^ 
1 gallon of soft water add 1 0l]nni , \ lo 
gall. This solution should be hnfi-°* 
when the articles are dropped into r 
chemical reaction results and the cni A 
are set or made nonfadine Tli* *». 8 
is harmless Colors iu^wool 
treated in the same manner. 

Condiments 

Chowchow. — 

Curry powder bounces 

Mustard powder Q ounces 

Ginger. _ 3 ounces 

Turmeric 2 ounces 

Cayenne 2 drachms 

Black pepper powder. 2 drachms 

Coriander 1 drachm 

Allspice 1 drachm 

Mace 30 grains 

Thyme 30 grains 

Savory 30 grains 

Celery seed 2 drachms 

Cider vinegar 2 gallons 

Mix all the powders with the vinegar, 
and steep the mixture over a very gentle 
fire for 3 hours. The pickles are to be 
parboiled with salt, and drained, and the 
spiced vinegar, prepared as above, is to 
be poured over them while it is still 
warm. The chowchow keeps best m 
small jars, tightly covered. 

Essence of Extract of Soup Herbs.— 
Thyme, 4 ounces ; winter savory, 4 ounces; 
sweet marjoram, 4 ounces; sweet basil, 
4 ounces; grated lemon peel, 1 ounce; 
eschalots, 2" ounces; bruised celery seed, 

1 ounce; alcohol (50 per cent), 64 ounces- 
Mix the vegetables, properly bruised, ada 
the alcohol, close the container and set 
aside in a moderately warm place to diges 
for 1.5 days. Filter and press out. pre- 
serve in 4-ounce bottles, well corked. 

Tomato Bouillon Extract.— Toma- 
toes, 1 quart; arrowroot, 2 ounces, _ 
tract of beef, 1 ounce; bay leaves. ^ 
ounce; cloves, 2 ounces; red P e PP^ t ' ;tf 
drachms; Worcestershire sauce, quani 

sufficient to flavor. Mix. 

Mock Turtle Extract.— Extract o 
beef, g ounces; concentrated 

2 ounces; clam juice, 8 ounces. ^ 
of black pepper, 1 ounce; extra . 
celery, 3 drachms; extract ot orai ^ v {o 
soluble, 1 drachm; hot water enoug 
make 2 quarts. 




CONDIMENTS 



213 



MJ" 0lin ccs Jamaica ginger; 2 
I- . V „b ncppercorns; 1 ounce mus- 
511 coriander fruit (seed); 

fcrf**? 'mmento (allspice); J ounce 
1 ° un i nnnre cloves; * ounce nutm 
fflaee; ; rfilipods; 3 dr- 1 
^ /ounces garlic; 

bruise spices, garlic, el 



egs; 
nitm 

4 ounces escha- 
etc, and boil in 



3 drachms cardamom 
ha- 

[ in 

"for J 5 minutes and strain. To 



^^ddh P illts mushroom ketchup; 

^^tmmJ'** « minutes and 

^One'poS'Toy; 50 ounces best 
Jmr; 4 ounces ketchup; 4 ounces gar- 
Si ounces eschalots; 4 ounces capsi- 
2L. 1 ounce cloves; J ounce mace; £ 
ounce 'cinnamon; 1 drachm cardamom 
seeds. Boil well and strain. 

Lincolnshire Relish.— Two ounces gar- 
lic; 2 ounces Jamaica ginger; 3 ounces 
black peppercorns; f ounce cayenne pep- 
per; \ ounce ossein; | ounce nutmeg; 
2 ounces salt; 1£ pints India soy. 
Enough malt vinegar to make 1 gallon. 
Bruise spices, garlic, etc., and simmer 
m J a gallon of vinegar for 20 minutes, 
strain and add soy and sufficient vinegar 
to make 1 gallon, then boil for 5 minutes. 
Keep iu bulk as long as possible. 

Curry Powder. — 

I.— Coriander seed 6 drachms 

Tur meric 5 scruples 

Fresh giuger 4 J drachms 

Cumin seed 18 grains 

Black pepper 54 

Poppy seed 94 

Garlic Q 



Cinnamon 1 

Cardamom 5 

Cloves g 

'Tor 2 

Crated eocoanut. . . . 

ft— Coriander seed 



grains 
grains 
heads 
scruple 
seeds 
only 
pods 
J nut 

i pound 



^naenc } pound 



Cinnamon seed. 
V a yenne 



2 ounces 



^enne A ounce 

S^apd I ounce 

Y r °nnd p 



£ ln ger 1 ounce 

fvT Ce ", jounce 

fenugreek seed % ounces 

S SAUCES: 
^stershire Sauce.- 

Cl?; e nt0 2 drachms 

Black'-" 1 drachm 



Gi 



inger 



- i f i rsn , n ill 

P e Pper 1 drachm 



i r tL ' " ■ •. 1 drachm 

lrr y Powder 1 ounce 




Capsicum i j i 

Mustard. * * drachm 

Shallots, bruised.'.:"" tnlT" 
Salt ounces 

Brown sugar:'.; Jounces 

Tamarinls bounces 

?wy wine.. \^ 



Win 



e vinegar.. g 



pints 



The spices must be freshly bruised 
The ingredients are to s irW r t ™^% 
with the vinegar for an hour, Adding 
more of the vinegar as it is lost by evap- 
oration; then add the wine, and if de- 
sired some caramel coloring. Set aside 
for a week, strain, and bottle. 

Table Sauce. — Brown sugar, 16 parts; 
tamarinds, 16 parts; onions, 4 parts; 
powdered ginger, 4 parts; salt, 4 parts; 
garlic, 2 parts; cayenne, 2 parts; soy, 2 
parts; ripe apples, 64 parts; mustard 
powder, 2 parts; curry powder, 1 part; 
vinegar, quantity sufficient. Pare and 
core the apples, boil them in sufficient 
vinegar with the tamarinds and raisins 
until soft, then pulp through a fine sieve. 
Pound the onions and garlic in a mortar 
and add the pulp to that of the apples. 
Then add the other ingredients and vin- 
egar, 60 parts; heat to boiling, cool, and 
add sherry wine, 10 parts, and enough 
vinegar to make the sauce just pourable. 
If a sweet sauce is desired add sufficient 
treacle before the final boiling. 

Epicure's Sauce.— Eight ounces tam- 
arinds; 12 ounces sultana raisins; 2 
ounces garlic; 4 ounces eschalots; 4 
ounces horse-radish root; 2 ounces black 
pepper ; \ ounce chili pods ; 3 ounces 
raw Jamaica ginger; 1* P°«nds golden 
syrup; 1 pound burnt sugar (caramel;, 
1 ounce powdered cloves; 1 pint India 
soy \ galFon malt vinegar. . Bruise £«rtj 
spaces f etc and boil - .megar o 15 
minutes, then strain, lo the straiue 
Honor add golden syrup, soy «4 
sugar, then simmer for 10 minutes. 
Piccalilli Sauce^One drachm 
ds; 14 ounces 
\ ounce pimento, | 9™"? * iceS a nd 
Ion malt vinegar.. Bruise . f 
garlic, boil in the vinegar tor xu 
and strain. d Jamaica ginger; 

One ounce g von ™ flowe r of xans- 
1 ounce turmeric; 2 ounces ^ QQt; 

tard; 2 ounces P°^£ d acid . Rub pow- 

8 ounces strong acetic ac d an d 

ders in a ^rgxwg^ for 5 ^utes, 
add to above then o 
or until it thickens. 

FLAVORING SPICES- cinnam on 

JkTro-eTpr/ered clove. 1 



214 



CONDIMENTS 



ounces powdered nutmegs; U ounces 
nowdered caraway seeds; It ounces 
KJdSrtd coriander seeds; 1 ounce pow- 
Sered Jamaica ginger; 4 ounce powdered 
allspice. Let all be dry and in fine pow- 
der Mix and pass through a sieve. 
II.— Pickling Spice.— Ten pounds 

sma ll Jamaica ginger; # P^^oer- 
peppercorns; H pounds white pePP^ 
corns; li pounds allspice; f pound long 
pepper; & pounds mustard seed; J 
pound chill pods. Cut up ginger and 
Ions pepper into small pieces, and mix 
all the other ingredients intimately. _ 

One ounce to each pint of boiling vin- 
egar is sufficient, but it may be made 
stronger if desired hot. 

Essence of Savory Spices,— Two and 
one-half ounces black peppercorns; 1 
ounce pimento; f ounce nutmeg; \ ounce 
mace; * ounce cloves; \ ounce cinnamon 
bark; £ ounce caraway seeds; 20 grains 
cayenne pepper; 15 ounces spirit of wine; 
5 ounces distilled water. Bruise all the 
spices and having mixed spirit and water, 
digest in mixture 14 days, shaking fre- 
quently, then filter. 
MUSTARD : 

The Prepared Mustards of Commerce. 
— The mustard, i. e., the flower or pow- 
dered seed, used in preparing the different 
condiments, is derived from three varie- 
ties of Brassica (Cruciferce) — Brassica 
alba L., Brassica nigra, and Brassica 
iuncea. The first yields the "white" 
of commerce, which produces a mild 
lustard; the second the "black" seed, 
ielding the more pungent powder; and 
e latter a very pungent and oily mus- 
rd, much employed by Russians. The 
mngency of the condiment is also af- 
fected by the_ method of preparing the 
paste, excessive heat destroying the 
sharpness completely. The pungency 
" further controlled and tempered, in 
ie cold processes, by the addition of 
rhe&t or rye flour, which also has the 
ivantage of serving as a binder of the 

U u J he mustard flour is pre- 
by first decorticating the seed, 
en grinding to a fine powder, the ex- 
S° n «f the fixed oil from which 
ompletes the process, 
he volatile, is of 
and o" 
make 



This oil, unlike 



™atue, is of a mild, pleasant taste, 
oi a greenish color, which, it is said, 
and fJitl- Ua H e ln the sophistication 

iSttaSS of olive " ous ' refined > 

verted T£& f oil bein 8 thus con- 

See ol^ m t Vter $ e de L » c ^> Flor- 

minatine m,™ extensive 'y used for illu- 
«n Ru S f ia PUrp ° Se3 ' es P««ally in south- 



The flavors, other thin *i 
mustard itself, of the valU, <* % 
tions are imparted by the S ? re Par a . 
of spices— cinnamon, nntmZ ° U , S 
pimento, etc.— aromatic herh= 0v e3 
thyme, sage, chervil, parslev^ 11 
marjoram, _ tarragon, etc, a 3' 
chives, onions, shallots, fillall y 
etc. s ' garlic, 

In preparing the mustards or, i 
scale, the mustard flower anrf a 
or rye flour are mixed and gr-ounJ^ 
smooth paste with vinegar m i a 
fermented grape juice), wi ne or t Utt " 
ever is used in the preparation a lii 
similar to a drug or paint mill being 3 
for the purpose. This doU gh irr^ ? 
ately becomes spongy, and in this (3 
tion technical y called «cake," h 2 
as the basis of the various mustards nl 
commerce. ■ 

Mustard Cakes.— In the mixture, the 
amount of flour used depends on the 
pungency of the mustard flower, and the 
flavor desired to be imparted to the fin- 
ished product. The cakes are broadly 
divided into the yellow and the brown. 
A general formula for the yellow cake is: 

Yellow mustard, from 20 to 30 per 
cent; salt, from 1 to 3 per cent; spices, 
from J to i of 1 per cent; wheat flour, 
from 8 to 12 per cent. 

Vinegar, must, or wine, complete the 
mixture. 

The brown cake is made with blaci 
mustard, and contains about the follow- 
ing proportions: 

Black mustard, from 20 to 30 pe 
cent; salt, from 1 to 3 per cent; spices, 
from £ to J of 1 per cent; wheat or rye 
flour, from 10 to 15 per cent. 

The variations are so wide, however 
that it is impossible to giv e _ exa | t t Jgjj 

ier kind 

of "manufacture, ' excellence is attainc, 
only by practice and "gSJ 
sound judgment and taste by toe 
facturcr. 

Moutarde des Jesuittes.-T^^ 
dels and 280 capers arc crusne ^ 
paste and stirred into a pm& bf0ff: 
wine vinegar. Add 4 ounces oi 
cake an<T8 ounces of yellow « 
mix well. 

a Red uce 
Kirschner Wine Mustard. |m4 
quarts of freshly expres sed J r a 
to half that quantity, by 
moderate fire, on a water ba ■ rf guga r, 
in the boiling liquid 6 p°«« a c0 i a nd<* 
and pour the syrup throng J^ctf 
containing 2 or 3 large horse- 



portions. In the manufacture 
mustards, in fact, as in every other u 



CONDIMENTS 



into 



very 



tin'" 



slices and laid on a coarse 
r J ""Tpver the bottom and sides 
t< ! KSder. To the colate add the 
of the - I nil in a state of fine powder: 

drachms 
drachms 
drachms 
ounce 
ounce 
pounds 
pounds 

perfectly 



f-Sfc-""*--" If 
Nutmeg 4* 



Cloves. 
Cjmiamon. 



ginger.. ■ < ■• VVV " 
growa mustard eaKe. 



y e ]]ow mustard cake 
ftrind all together _ to 
*k niste and strain several times 
&gb musUn. 
Dtiesse ldorff Mustard.- 
Broivn mustard cake 
Yellow mustard cake 

Boiling water 

Wine vinegar. 

Cinnamon 

Cloves 15 

Sugar _ ■ 

Wine, good white .... 64; 

Mis after the general directions given 
above. 

German Table Mustard. — 



10 

48 
96 
64 
5 



ounces 

ounces 

ounces 

ounces 

drachms 

drachms 

ounces 

ounces 





8 


ounces 


Cinnamon, ....... 


5 


drachms 


Cardamom seeds. . 


2 


drachms 


Wine vinegar 


64 


ounces 


. . 96 


ounces 


Brown cake 


. . 10 


ounces 


Yellow cake 


48 


ounces 



Mix after general directions as given 
fib o ?e. 

Erems Mustard, Sweet. 

Yellow cake 10 pounds 

Brown cake 20 pounds 

iresh grape juice .... 6 pints 

sisteicy ad ^ d ° Wn to the P ro P er con " 

^wns Mustard, Sour.— 
Bt-own. mustard flour, 



fellow mustard flour, 
^rape juice, fresh.. . . 



30 parts 
10 parts 
8 parts 



Btip iL X o a nd boil down to a paste and then 
la 8 parts of wine vinegar. 



B 



a gon Mustard.- 



&a mustard flour, 
lej'ow mustard flour. 



40 parts 
20 parts 
6 parts 
6 parts 

^h7?l mustar d in the vinegar ana 
T tarr ag OIX vinegar. 

SV*d°bv B S t J? tard » Sharp. -This is 



ofiw, ou nces of white pepper, 
Pimento, and 2£ ounces of cloves, 



215 

Moutarde aux Epices.— 

Mustard flour, yellow in ^ j 
Mustard flour, Lowm l° 0 
larragon. . ■, l JUUn( is 

Basil, herb..".'. 1 Pound 
Laurel leaves....'.'." 12 d^T 
White pepper ^drachma 

r*i~ PF ounces 

f T Ioves 12 drachms 

^ ace 2 drachms 

7 me ? ar 1 gallon 

Mix the herbs and macerate them in 
the vinegar to exhaustion, then add to 
the mustards, and grind together. Set 
aside for a week or ten days, then strain 
through muslin. 

In all the foregoing formulas where 
the amount of salt is not specified, it is to 
be added according to the taste or dis- 
cretion of the manufacturer. 

Mustard Vinegar. — 

Celery, chopped fine. 32 parts 

Tarragon, the fresh 

herb 6 parts 

Cloves, coarsely pow- 
dered 6 parts 

Onions, chopped fine 6 parts 

Lemon peel, fresh, 

chopped fine. .... 3 parts 

White-wine vinegar. . 575 parts 

White wine 515 parts 

Mustard seed, 

crushed 100 parts 

Mix and macerate together for a week 
or 10 days in a warm place, then strain 
off. 

Ravigotte Mustard.— 

Parsley \ P"*| 

Chervil I P aT J; 

Ch-s P-f 

3^es • \* 

§ arllc 1 part 
Thyme £ art 

Tarragon g ^ 

4 parts' 

W 1 h I^incvinegar\..m Pa^ 
Mustard flower, sufficient. 

r„t or bruise the plants and spices, 
Cut or Drt ":'= • tu e vinegar for lo 
and macerate them in ^the v, ^ h 
or 20 davs. Strain the I q rf 
cloth and add the salt. - n jce> 

with the olive *1 ™ *i£S Vinegar from 
adding a httle of the jpic«i -J mcoT ^ 
time to time unUl ^ mixture mate, 
rated and'tne coiuf 
g84 parts. 



CONDIMENTS, TESTS FOR ADUL- 
TERATED : 

See Foods. 
CONDITION POWDERS FOR CAT- 
TLE: ^ 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

CONDUCTIVITY OF ALUMINUM AL- 
LOYS: 
See Alloys. 



Confectionery- 
cream Bonbons for Hoarseness.— 
Stir into 500 parts of cream oOO parts oi. 
white sugar. Put in a pan and cook, 
with continuous stirring, until it becomes 
brown and viscid. Now put in a bak- 
ing tin and smooth out, as neatly as pos- 
sible, to the thickness of, say, twice that 
of the back of a table knife and let it 
harden. Before it gets completely hard 
draw lines with a knife across the sur- 
face in such manner that when it is quite 
hard it will break along them, easily, into 
bits the size of a lozenge. 

Nut Candy Sticks.— Cook to 320° F. 
8 pounds best sugar in 3 pints water, 
with 4 pounds glucose added. Pour out 
on an oiled slab and add 5 pounds al- 
monds, previously blanched, cut in small 
ieces, and dried in the drying room, 
ix up well together to incorporate the 
uts thoroughly with the sugar. When 
t has cooled enough to be handled, form 
"nto a round mass on the slab and spin 
out m long, thin sticks. 

Fig Squares. — Place 5 pounds of 
ugar and 5 pounds of glucose in a cop- 
per pan, with water enough to dissolve 
the sugar. Set on the fire, and when it 
tarts to boil add 5 pounds of ground 
figs. Stir and cook to £40° on the ther- 
mometer. Set off the fire, aud then add 
& pounds of fine cocoanuts; mix well and 
pour out on greased marble, roll smooth, 
and cut like caramels. 

Caramels. — Heat 10 pounds sugar and 
S pounds glucose in a copper kettle until 
dissolved. A.dd cream to the mixture 
** intervals, until 2£ quarts are used. 
Add 2£ pounds caramel butter and 12 
ounces paradine wax to the mixture. 
Cook to a rather stiff ball, add nuts, pour 
out between iron bars and, when cool 
enough, cut into strips. For the white 
ones flavor with vanilla, and add 2 
pounds melted chocolate liquor for the 
cnocolate caramel when nearly cooked. 
Candy Orange Drops.— It is compar- 



atively easy to make a hard c^A , 
to put the material into "diw- * ut 
apparently requires ex per i en p f °rm 
machine. To make the candv * a 
put, say, a pint of water into n «, ?r^. 
pan or kettle, heat to boiling an i ab > 
gradually to it 2 pounds or more of ^ 
stirring well so as to avoid the T - U | ar > 
burning the sugar. Continue hlfv* 
the syrup so formed until a little 2" * 
poured on a cold slab forms a mass of \\ 
required hardness. If the candy is L J e 
of orange flavor, a little fresh oil of 
ange is added just before the mass °£ 
ready to set and the taste is im pm Ji 
according to the general view at least 
by adding, also, say, 2 drachms of citric 
acid dissolved in a very little water. ^ E 
a coloring an infusion of saf&ower or 
tincture of turmeric is used. 

To make such a mass into tablets, it is 
necessary only to pour out on a well- 
greased slab, turning the edges back iE 
inclined to run, until the candy is firm, 
and then scoring with a knife so that 
it can easily be broken into pieces whea 
cold. To make "drops" a suitable 
mold is necessary. 

Experiment as to the sufficiency of the 
boiling in making candy may be saved 
and greater certainty of a good result se- 
cured by the use of a chemical thermom- 
eter. As the syrup is boiled and the 
water evaporates the temperature of the 
liquid rises. When it reaches 220° F 
the sugar is then in a condition to vie d 
the "thread" form; at 240° "soft ball 
is formed; at 245°, "hard ball"; at 2o2 , 
"crack 55 ; and at 290°, "hard crack. 
By simply suspending the thermometer 
in the liquid and observing it from time 
to time, one may know exactly when to 
end the boiling. 

Gum Drops.-Grind 25 pou*I« 
Arabian or Senegal gum, P ,a L c ® kettle, 
copper pan or in a steam 
and pour 3 gallons of boiling w»» # 
it; stfr it up well. Now seUhe pan 



the 



gum 



into another pan 



lowly 




with 'sufficient water 2 P°»^ ^ ^ 
cose, and a teaspoontul <?r ^ . guBJ , 
tar to a stiff ball, pour it over ^ ^ 
mix well, set the pan on the k« ^ i hM(St 



uiu wen, sci hj<- t->"" -— t r li Ji° ,, 

hot water, and let it steam ior ^ ketf [e 
taking care that the water 1 1 d r « 
does not run dry; then open " fth aS he 
the stove and cover the nrfc , v a n h° 11 
and let the gum settle for i affitfe settle 
then remove the scum ^^t^ the f u 
on top, flavor and run out * 



CONFECTIONERY 



217 



, D pner into the starch impressions, 
p j nliice the trays in the drying room 
or until dry; then take the 



and P l f . 

f° r 4 oU t of the starch, clean them of! 

^faiid P lace lliem in cr ^ sta ^ P ans » one 
two layers. Cook sugar and water 
JJJjw on>he syrup gauge and pour over 
Ae drop* lukewarm. Xet stand in a 
Sderately warm place over night, then 
A n the syrup off, and about an hour 
forwards knock the gum drops out on a 
Son table, pick them apart, and place 
" n trays until dry, when they are ready for 
sale. 

A Good Summer Taffy. — Place in a 
kettle 4 pounds of sugar, 3 pounds of 
Hucose, and H pints of water; when it 
boils drop in a piece of huttcr half the 
size of an egg and about 2 ounces of 
paraffine wax. Cook to £62°, pour on a 
slab, and when cool enough, pull, flavor, 
and'color if you wish. Pull until light, 
then spin out on the table in strips about 3 
inches wide and cut into 4- or 4^-inch 
lengths. Then wrap in wax paper for 
the counter. This taffy keeps long with- 
out being grained by the heat. 

Chewing Candy. — Place 20 pounds of 
sugar in a copper pan, add 20 pounds of 
glucose, and enough water to easily dis- 
solve the sugar. Set on the fire or cook 
in the steam pan in % quarts of water. 
Have a pound of egg albumen soaked in 
2 quarts of water. Beat this like eggs 
into a very stiff froth, add gradually the 
sugar and glucose; when well beaten up, 
add 5 pounds of powdered sugar, and 
heat at very little heat either in the steam 
beater or on a pan of boiling water until 
[jgat, and does not stick to the back of 
we hand, flavor with vanilla, and put in 
«ays dusted with fine sugar. When cold 
j* pay be cut, or else it mav be stretched 
jw on a sugar-dusted table, cut, and 
3 P t m wax P a P er - Tnis chewing 
or Jr • to ^ e kept in a very dry place, 
ei »e it will run and get sticky. 

^ntpeUer Cough Drops.— 

^rown sugar 10 pounds 

-tartaric acid g ounces 

^jeam of tartar Jounce 

? alet if quarts 

Amse-seed flavoring, 
^ quantity sufficient, 
at a !l the sugar in the water, and when 
Cover th P add thc cream of tartar, 
the li<J a i*i ai1 ^ or 5 minutes. Remove 
^ e gi"e e n ^r ^ e su S ar boil up to crack 
Blab an j u £ n out the batch on an oiled 
biald in ?i when cool enough to handle 
throuJu ^ e ac >d and flavoring. Pass it 
* tde acid drop rollers, and when 



the 



Medicated Cough Drops. _ 

Light-brown sugar. 14 

1 artanc acid. . ( 1 
Cream of tartar 1| ounces 
Water. . 



pounds 



ounce 
quarts 



Anise-seed, cayenne, 
clove, and pepper- 
mint flavoring, a few 
drops of each. 

Proceed as before prescribed, bui 
when sufficiently cool pass the batch 
through the acid tablet rollers and dust 
with sugar. 



Ho rebound Candy. — 

Dutch crushed sugar. 10 

Dried horehound leaves 2 

Cream of tartar £ 

Water g 



pounds 
ounces 
ounce 
quarts 



Anise-seed flavoring, 
quantity sufficient. 
Pour the water on the leaves and let it 
gently simmer till reduced to 3 pints; then 
strain the infusion through muslin, and 
add the liquid to the sugar. PuL the pan 
containing the syrup on the fire, an 
when at a sharp boil add the cream 
tartar. Put the lid on the pan for 5 min- 
utes; then remove it, and let the sugar 
boil to stiff boil degree. Take the pan 
off the fire and rub portions of the 
sugar against the side until it produces a 
creamy appearance; then add the flavor- 
ing. Stir all well, and pour into square 
tin frames, previously well oiled. 

Menthol Cough Drops.— 

Gelatin 1 ounce 

Glycerine (by weight) 2£ ounces 
Orange-flower water.. H ounces 

Menthol...... 5 

Rectified spirits 1 

Soak the gelatin in the water for S 
hours, then heat on a water bath un 
dissolved, and add U ounces of g ycerm 



Dissolve the menthol in the spirit, mix 
StiTt& remainder of the glycerine add 
to the elyco-gelatm _ mass and pour into 



with the remai 
lyco-ge 
an oiled tin tray (such as 



into 10 dozen pastilles. 

Menthol pastilles are , Mid 
excellent remedy or ttcLUng ^ 
well as laryngitis, x ncy 

as may be necessary. 

Viol.. Flavor t*^£*g*JZ 



W8 



CONFECTIONERY 



undertaking. 



^C/Kn^Cofvarillin), rose, 
£d or£ will " v«T little o£ »me Pjm- 
* . " -i t l brine nt» the flavor. lne joi- 
CS^JSd a basis upon which a 

Krffctory flavor may ce built. 

Oil Of orris 1 drachm 

AM of rose 1 drachm 

ffiJST:.. *ttr 

&::::::::::" = ■ 

Make a solution, adding the water last. 

CONFECTIONERY COLORS. — The 
following are excellent and entirely 
harmless coloring agents for the pur- 
poses named: 

Red.— Cochineal syrup prepared as 
follows: 

Cochineal, in coarse 

powder. 6 parts 

Potassium carbonate 2 parts 

Distilled water 15 parts 

Alcohol ■ 12 parte 

Simple syrup enough 

to make 500 parts 

Rub up the potassium carbonate and 
e cochineal together, adding the water 
d alcohol, little by little, under constant 
duration. Set aside over night, then 
d the syrup and lilter. 

Pink.— 

Carmine 1 part 

Liquor potassae 6 parts 

Rose water, enough 

to make 48 parts 

Mix. Should the color be too high, 
dilute with water until the requisite tint 
is acquired. 

Orange. — Tincture of red sandalwood, 
1 part; ethereal tincture of oriean, quan- 
tity sufficient. Add the tincture of or- 
lean to the sandalwood tincture until the 
desired shade of orange is obtained. 

A red added to any of the yellows gives 
»» orange color. 

The aniline colors made by the "Ak- 
laengcsellsehaft fur Anilin"- Fabrika- 
taon, ' of Berlin, are absolutely non-toxic, 
»nd can be used for the purposes recom- 
mended, i. e „ the coloration of svrups, 
cakes, candies, etc., with perfect "confi- 
dence m their innocuity. 

Pastille Yellow.— 

Citron yellow II 7 parts 

wape sugar, first 

w ?" ali jy-- ■ 1 part 

White dextrine 2 parts 



Sap-Blue Paste. — 

Dark blue « 

Grape sugar. . . ' ^ Parts 

Water %V*tt 

" ' ' - b Parts 
Sugar-Black Paste. — 

Carbon black g 

Grape sugar " , *J*J* 

Water i l™\ 

b Parts 

Cinnabar Red.* — 

Scarlet (jc 

White dextrine 3 q 

Potato flour [ 8 J Jgj 

Bluish Rose.* — 

Grenadine.. q 5 pQrts 

White dextrine 80 parts 

Potato flour 5 p artg 

Yellowish Rose. — 

Rosa II 60 parts 

Citron yellow 5 paTts 

White dextrine 30 parts 

Potato flour 5 parts 

Violet.— 

Red violet. 65 parts 

White dextrine 30 parts 

Potato flour 5 parts 

Carmine Green, — 

Woodruff (Waldmeis- 

ter) green 55 parts 

Rosa II .... - 5 paits 

Dextrine. 35 parts 

Potato flour 5 parts 

To the colors marked with an asterisk 
(*) add, for every 4 pounds, 4A ounces, a 
grain and a half each of potassium iodide 
and sodium nitrate. Colors given a 
form of powders should be dissolved m 
hot water for use. 

Yellow.— Various shades of yello* 
may be obtained by the maceration 
Besiello saffron, or turmeric, 01 -g 
d' Avignon in alcohol until a strong w ^ 
turc Is obtained. Dilute "Wim, ^ 
until the desired shade is ° btal ^ u e a l so 
aqueous solution of querci 
gives an excellent yellow. 

Blue 'T • J part 

Indigo carmine. . ■ - ■ • r rts 

Water. * F 

Mix " ■* I po^ er 

Indigo carmine is a bea " f ' " v usu* 11 ? 
ful, and harmless agent, it * / f , { 9B . 
be bought commercial y, j fig foi- 

not be readily obtained, pr«- ' 
lows: n - ns of io dlfc j 

Into a capsule put 30 &*™* bfl th. 
in powder, place on a wa« , ffl P u 
beat to dryness. When en^m 




UUjN Jb JiiXJl'I UNKH Y — COPPER 



219 



into 



large porcelain mortar (the sub- 
soils enormously under subse- 
stB,a °? treatment — hence the necessity 
9. u large or comparatively large, mor- 
f ° r i a and cautiously add, drop by drop, 
SS stains, by weight, of sulphuric acid, 
r P stirring continuously during the 
1 j^inn Cover the swollen mass close- 
* ind set aside for 24 .hours. Now 

'dd 



^2 -^"fluidounces of distilled water, a 



# * drops at a time, rubbing or stirring 
ontinnously. Transfer the liquid thus 
obtained to a tali, narrow, glass cylinder 
or beaker, cover and let stand for 4 days, 
giving the liquid an occasional stirring. 
Make a strong solution of sodium car- 
bonate or bicarbonate, and at the end of 
the time named cautiously neutralize the 
liquid, adding the carbonate a little at a 
time, stirring the indigo solution and 
testing it after each addition, as the least 
excess of alkali will cause the indigo to 
separate out, and fall in a doughy mass. 
Stop when the test shows the near ap- 
proach of neutrality, as the slight re- 
maining acidity will not affect the taste 
or the properties of the liquid. Filter, 
and evaporate in the water bath to dry- 
ness, Hie resultant matter is sulphin- 
digotate of potassium, or the "indigo 
carmine" of commerce. 

Tincture of indigo may also be used as 
a harmless blue. 

; Green. ^Thc addition of the solution 
indigo carmine to an infusion of any of 
the matters given under "yellow" will pro- 
duce a green color. Tincture of crocus 
and glycerine in equal parts, with the 
addition of indigo-carmine solution, also 
gww a fine green. A solution of com- 
mercial chlorophyll gives grass-green, in 
cades varying according to the concen- 
tration of the solution. 

Voice and Thxoat Lozenges.— 

Catechu 191 grains 

iamuc acid 273 grains 

tartaric acid 273 grains 

W !Cm 30 minims 

"lack-eurrantpastc. 7 ounces 
{"fined sugar, 
Mueriage G f acacia, 

°f each a sufficient 

quantity. 

Mb fn ^ 1 

P^duce 7 pounds of lozenges. 

°i5$;*™W » BIRDS : 
0 Vet mil Formulas. 

C ^WG -TABLE: 
* e Tables 




Kefngeratioa. 



Copp 



er 



Annealing Copper.— 
Copper is almost universalis 1 , 

m mufces, in which { t ? a raJed T If 
desired temperature, and sTbsenuentlv 
allowed to cool either ;» ^^quently 
water. 



cool either in the air or in 
A muffle is nothing more or less 
than a reverberatory f urnr 



ce. 



It 



necessary to watch the coppeVearefulW 
so that when it has reached thl rfSfi 
temperature it may be drawn from the 
muffle and allowed to cool. This i! 
important, for if the copper is heated too 
high, or is left in the muffle at the ordi- 
nary temperature of annealing too long 
it is burnt, as the workmen say. Copper 
that has been burnt is yellow, coarsely 
granular, and exceedingly brittle — even 
more brittle at a red heat than when 
cold. 

In the case of coarse wire it is found 
that only the surface is burnt, while the 
interior is damaged less. This causes 
the exterior to split loose from the in- 
terior when bent or rolled, thus giving 
the appearance of a brittle copper tube 
with a copper wire snugly fitted into it. 
Cracks a half inch in depth have been 
observed on the surface of an ingot on its 
first pass through the rolls, all due to 
this exterior burning. It is apparent 
that copper that has been, thus over- 
heated in the muffle is entirely unfit for 
rolling. It is found that the purer forms 
of copper are less liable to be harmed by 
overheating than samples containing 
even a small amount of impurities. 
Even the ordinary heating in a muffle 
will often suffice to burn in this manner 
the surface of some specimens of copper, 
rendering them unfit for further working. 
Copper that has been thus ruined is ot 
use only to be refined again. d 

As may be inferred only the highest 
grades of refined copper are used tor 
drawing or for rolling. This is not be- 
cause the lower grades when refined can- 

due to overheating. . con . 
r rilo -nmcess of rehning copper con 

called poling. I ne T °^ c __ Li~f.i;*p or 
tion 



i/ t „ o S idi,a and ehherjol.t.li.aor 



to slag all tta i-puntJJ JJ'j. 

ZS&sss w ™ iE *• - b - 



820 



COPPER 



«vide of copper is freely soluble in 
Stallic copS and thus penetrates o 
parts of tie copper, and parting with 
its oxygen, oxidizes the .impurities. 



all parts of the cop] 

||e^S</£e educing part of the 



of the 'suboxide of copper to 
copper. Copper containing even less 
thfn 1 per cent of the suboxide of copper 
shows decreased malleability and duc- 
tility, and is both cold-short and red- 
short. If the copper to be refined con- 
tains any impurities, such as arsenic or 
antimony, it is well not to remove too 
much of the oxygen in the refining proc- 
ess If this is done, overpoled copper 
is produced. In this condition it is 
brittle, granular, of a shining yellow 
color, and more red-short than cold- 
short. When the refining has been prop- 
erly done, and neither too much nor too 
little oxygen is present, the copper is in 
the condition of " tough pitch," and is in 
a fit state to be worked. 

Copper is said to be "tough pitch 
when it requires frequent bending to break 
it, and when, after it is broken, the color 
is pale red, the fracture has a silky lus- 
ter, and is fibrous like a tuft of silk. On 
hammering a piece to a thin plate it 
should show no cracks at the edge. At 
tough pitch copper offers the liighest 
degree of malleability and ductility of 
which a given specimen is capable. 
This is the condition in which refined 
copper is (or should be) placed on the 
market, and if it could be worked with- 
out changing this tough pitch, any 
specimen of copper that could be brought 
to this condition would be suitable for 
rolling or drawing, But tough pitch is 
changed if oxygen is either added or 
taken from refined copper. 

By far the more important of these is 
the removal of oxygen, especially from 
those specimens that contain more than a 
mere trace of impurities. This is shown 
by the absolutely worthless condition 
of overpoled copper. The addition of 
carbon also plays a very important part 
in the production of overpoled copper. 

That the addition of oxygen to refined 
copper is not so damaging is shown by 
the fact that at present nearly all the cop- 
per that is worked is considerably oxi- 
dized at some stage of the process, and 
not especially to its detriment. 

Burnt copper is nothing more or less 
man copper m the overpoled condition. 
A his is brought about by the action of 
reducing gases in the muffle. Bv this 
means the small amount of oxygen nec- 

amoved. This oxygen is combined 



with impurities in the cop per 
renders them inert. For exam 
oxide of arsenic or antimony ? • tlle 
pable of combining morR than ii 1 * 
ically with the copper, but when T 
gen is removed the arsenic or B „? 03! J' 
is left free to combine with thJ on * 
This forms a brittle alloy, and orT^ 
corresponds almost exactly i n it s hat 
ties with overpoled copper. To b °^ eT * 
overpoled copper is supposed to conE? 
carbon, but that this is not the esse M 
ruling principle in case oF anneal W 8 
shown by the tact thai pure copper do„ 
not undergo > this change under CO ndi 
tions that rum impure copper, and also 
by the fact that the same state may W 
produced by annealing in pure hydro- 
gen and thus removing the oxygen tha" 
renders the arsenic or antimony inert 
No attempt is made to deny the well 
known fact that carbon does combin 
with copper to the extent of 0.2 per cen 
and cause it to become exceedingl 
brittle. It is simply claimed that this ' 
probably not what occurs in the pr 
duction of so-called burnt copper durin 
annealing. The amount oE impuriti 
capable of rendering copper easily burn 
is exceedingly small. This may be bet 
ter appreciated when it is considere 
that from 0.01 to 0.2 per cent express 
the amount of oxygen necessary to ren 
dcr the impurities inert. The remov 
of this very small amount of oxyge - 
which is often so small as to be aim; 
within the limits of the errors of analysis 
will suffice to render copper overpol 
and ruin it for any use. , 

There are methods of avoiding tfl 
numerous accidents that may occur 
the annealing of copper, due to a chan 
of pitch. As already pointed out, w 
quality of refined copper is ^eiea 
oxygen be either added to oi - taken f o 
it. It is quite apparent, therefore, 
a really good method of anneal « 
per will prevent any change in ine 
of oxidation. It is necessary to ' F ^ 
access to the heated copper uot ~ 
mospheric air, which would ° x heat 
and of the reducing gases use a 
ing the muffle, which would ™ Ke V„ 
away from it. Obviously the > W tfa 
of accomplishing this is to ^ ^ a 
copper when heated and tn n0 
atmosphere that can neltnt L.-' 1( r eopP e 
eoxidize copper. By so j 1 ^, a n 
lay be nca tod to tlie 30a 



allowed to cot 
as regards its 

paratively few gases that can ^ ^ 
this purpose, but, fortunately.^^ 
is exceedingly cheap & na 



COPPER 



221 



W fulfills all requirements, viz., 
pre? j n or der to apply the principles 
steaC1 iated it is necessary only to anneal 
eD r in the ordinary annealing pots 
copP e are used for iron, care being 
in to inclose the copper while heating 
A vrbiie cooling in an atmosphere of 
& This will effectually exclude air 
ste J^, r event the ingress of gases used 
* heatin* the annealer. Twenty-four 
Zurs may be used in the process, as in 
thVannealing of iron wire, with no detn- 
mnA to the wire. This may seem in- 
edible to those manufacturers who 
Uye tried to anneal copper wire after 
the manner of annealing iron wire. By 
this method perfectly bright annealed 
wire may be produced. Such a process 
of annealing copper offers many advan- 
tages. It allows the use of a grade of 
copper that has hitherto been worked 
only at a great disadvantage, owing to its 
tendency to get out-of pitch. It allows 
the use of annealers such as are ordi- 
narily employed for annealing iron, and 
thus cheapens the annealing consider- 
ably as compared with the present use of 
muffles. There is no chance of produc- 
ing the overpoled condition from the 
action of reducing gases used in heating 
the muffles. There is no chance of pro- 
ducing the underpoled condition due to 
the absorption of suboxide of copper. 
None of the metal is lost as scale, and the 
saving that is thus effected amounts to a 
considerable percentage of the total 
value of the copper. The expense and 
time of cleaning are wholly saved. In- 
cidentally bright annealed copper is 
produced by a process which is appli- 
cable to copper of any shape, size, or 
condition— a product that has hitherto 
wen obtained only by processes (mostly 
secret) which are too cumbersome and 
oo ^expensive for extensive use; and, as 

the ri CaSe With at least one process, with 
rn „j. a . n 2 er of producing the overpoled 
Edition, often in only a small section 

piece WlFe ' ttus ruinin S th e whole 

^■PPER COLORING: 

Blackin 
article a 



Copper. — To give a copper 



>lack 



clean it with 



covering, 

X P fl per ' } - eat gentl y in a Bunsen or 
8 <>lutior f 6 ' lmmers e for 10 second 
^cid n „i°L C0 PP^r filings in dilute nitric 
Q^and heat again. 

color m C ° l u ril1 ^ of Copper. — A fine red 
ally h^f^ b ? £pven to copper by gradu- 

KthS ? g lt m an air ba * h Pronged 
a tu Ie _ a Com Paratively low temper- 
Iteraw rap , ld beating at a high tem- 
* Produces the same result. As 



JhTm^hou^^ Sp^ ' 
quenching in water F&'^fiJ" 
colored may be varnished &1 thus 

To Dye Copper Parts Violet and a 
ange. -Polished copper 
orange-like color leaning to SZ \ ^ 
dipped for a few second! ^tlZtial 
of crystallized copp er acetate, A hand 
some violet is obtained by placing ?he 
metal for a few minutes in a solution of 
antimony chloride and rubbing it after- 
wards with a piece of wood covered with 
cotton. During this operation the cop- 
per must be heated to a degree bearable 
to the hand. A crystalline appearance 
is produced by boiling the article in 
copper sulphate. 

Pickle for Copper.— Take nitric acid, 
100 parts; kitchen salt, 2 parts; calcined 
soot, 2 parts; or nitric acid, 10 parts; sul- 
phuric acid, 10 parts; hydrochloric acid, 
1 part. As these bleaching baths attack 
the copper quickly, the objects must be 
left in only for a few seconds, washing 
them afterwards in plenty of water, and 
drying in sawdust, bran, or spent tan. 

Preparations of Copper Water. — I. — 
Water, 1,000 parts; oxalic acid, 30 parts; 
spirit of wine, 100 parts; essence of tur- 
pentine, 50 parts; fine tripoli, 100 parts. 

II. — Water. 1,000 parts; oxalic acid, 
30 parts; alcohol, 50 parts; essence of 
turpentine, 40 parts; fine tripoli, 50 
parts. 

Ill— Sulphuric acid, S00 parts; sul- 
phate of alumina, 80 parts; water, 520 
parts. 

Tempered Copper. — Objects made of 
copper may be satisfactorily tempered 
by subjecting them to a certain degree 
of heat for a determined period ot time 
and bestrewing them with Peered 
sulphur during the heating. Whilehot 
the objects are plunged into a bath of 
blue vitriol; after the bath they may be 
heated again. 

COPPER ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 

ods. 

COPPER ETCHING: 

See Etching. 

COPPER I" FOOD: 

See Food- 
COPPER LACQUERS: 

See Lacquers. 



COPPER— COPYING PRINTED PICTURES 



COPPER PAPER: 

See Paper, Metallic. 
COPPER PATINIZING AND PLATING : 

See riating. 
COPPER POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 
COPPER, SEPARATION OE GOLD 
FROM: 
See Gold. 
COPPER SOLDER: 

See Solders. 
COPPER VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 
COPYING PRINTED PICTURES. 

The so-called "metallic" paper used 
for steam-engine indicator cards has a 
smooth surface, chemically prepared so 
that black lines can be drawn upon it 
with pencils made of brass copper, sil- 
ver, aluminum, or any of the softer 
metals. When used on the indicator it 
receives the faint line drawn by a brass 
point at one end of the pencil arm, and 
its special advantage over ordinary paper 
is that the metallic pencil slides over its 
surface with very little friction, and keeps 
its point much longer than a graphite 
pencil. 

This paper can be used as a transfer 
paper for copying engravings or sketches, 
or anything printed or written in ink or 
drawn in pencil. 

The best copies can be obtained by 
following the directions below: Lay 
the metallic transfer paper, face up, upon 
at least a dozen sheets of blank paper, 
and lay the print face down upon it. On 
the back of the print place a sheet of 
heavy paper, or thin cardboard, and run 
the rubbing _ tool over this protecting 
sheet. In this manner it is comparative- 
ly easy to prevent slipping, and prints 8 
or 10 inches on a side may be copied 
satisfactorily. 

Line drawings printed from relief 
plates, or pictures with sharp contrast 
of black and white, without any half- 
tones, give the best copies. Very few 
half-tones can be transferred satisfac- 
torily; almost all give streaked, indis- 
tinct copies, and many of the results are 
worthless. 

The transfer taken of? as described is 
a reverse of the original print. If the 
question of right and left is not impor- 
tant this reversal will seldom be obiec- 

w OIU T u f ° r , h is eas y to rea d hack- 
ward what few letters generally occur 
However, if desired, the paper may be 

th?h P v° the , li S ht a "d examined from 
the back, or olaeed before a mirror and 



viewed by means of its reflerW ■ 
when the true relations of rif>hl lVah & 
will be seen. Moreover, if ? l{ ^ n . d ^ft 
important, an exact counter^* 
original may be taken from tL l 0t 
copy by laying another sheet far 
ward upon it, and rubbing on tt ^ 
of the fresh sheet just as Twas d back 
making the reversed copy T^-* 5 
pression thus produced will k*> e ■ 
than the first, but almost always 
be made dark enough to show a d 
outline which may afterwards hi 
touched with a lead pencil 

For indicator cards the paper is pje _ 
pared by coating one surface with a suit" 
able compound, usually zinc oxide muS 
with a little starch and enough g! ue Z 
make it adhere. After drying it j° 
passed between calendar rolls under great 
pressure. The various brands manu- 
i tactured for the trade, though perhaps 
equally good for indicator diagrams, are 
not equally well suited for copying.' h 
paper of firmer texture could he prepared 
with the same surface finish, probably 
much larger copies could be produced. 

Other kinds of paper, notably the 
heavy plate papers used for some oftbe 
best trade catalogues, possess this trans- 
fer property to a slight degree, though 
they will not receive marks from a me- 
tallic pencil. The latter feature would 
seem to recommend them for transfer 
purposes, making them less likely to be- 
come soiled by contact with metallic 
objects, but so far no kind has been 
found which will remove enough ink 
to give copies anywhere near as dark 
the indicator paper. L 
Fairly good transfers can be raw 
from almost any common printers m 
but some inks copy much better™* 
others, and some yield only the .fetifl 
impressions. The length of time ^ 
picture, was printed does not sea* ^ 
termine its copying W^^n ne* 
old prints can be copied better in» 
ones; in fact, it was by »<^Vb«* 
fer to an indicator card brf the 

nearly a hundred years oia ^^.. 
peculiar property of tms 
paper was discovered. 



suritices are ex 
the wood will 



sunlit 



Copying Process on 

t, after 
dark tc 

exposed places. Certain P^ g ^ 



xposcd to direct 
the wood will exhibit, otter^ ^ ^ 
action, a browning ot darK ^ of t * 



exposed piace!,. ~« - g 
surface being covered up « eta m t 
tire exposure '.o the sun, Uiey a n 
original s 

hade and are sei >" d by £ 
sharply against the parts or 0 i 
sunlight. Based on this 



COPYING PROCESSES — CORKS 



, . . sun-copying process on wood. 
Ind is used for producing tarsia 
^ !l£ on wood. . A pierced stencil 
jd 111111 ,,d or paper is laid on a freshly 
o f tin 'j nl -ile of wood, pasting it on in 
» lan t P avoid shifting, and put into a 

To prevent the 

stretcher is em- 



from carping a i 



ff0 ° j Thereupon expose to the sun for 
to li days- After the brown 
^ has appeared the design obtained 
shade t K fixed by polishing or by a coating 
if p» ru -? , ' , raue r, or wax. Best suited 
l^tSethepme woods, espc- 
11 't he 5-year fir and the cembra pine, 
S, after the exposure, show a yellow- 
§ brown tone of handsome go den gloss, 
ftftSda out boldly, especially after 
Sequent polishing, and cannot be 
placed by any stain or by pyrography. 
The design is sharper and clearer than 
that produced by painting. In short, 
the total effect is pleasing. 

How to Reproduce Old Prints.— Pre- 
pare a bath as follows: Sulphuric acid, 
3 to 5 parts (according to the antiquity of 
print, thickness of paper, etc.); alcohol, 
Stofi parts; water, 100 parts. In this 
soak the print from 5 to 15 minutes (the 
time depending on age, etc., as above), 
remove, spread face downward on a 
glass or ebonite plate, and wash thor- 
oughly in a gentle stream of running 
water. If the paper is heavy, reverse 
the sides, and let the water flow over 
the face of the print, Remove care- 
fully and place on a heavy sheet of 
Wotting paper, cover with another, and 
press out every drop of water possible. 
Wh- 



ere a wringing machine is convenient 
m sufficiently wide, passing the blot- 
ters and print through the rollers is bet- 
l^than mere pressing with the hands. 

Pnnt, still moist, is then laid face 
Mp a i k° n a aeav 7 glass plate (a mar- 
awe ° r a lithographers' stone an- 
With-'" t,Ually wcl1 ^' and smootlied out - 
'ace 7'tif ry so ^ s P on ? e S° ovcr the SUT ~ 
*atetr!l coatin g °f gum-arabic 
ine ■ V P r,n t is now ready for ink- 

^piTin ls , done exact] y as in lith °- 

ithoin. u Wl a r °H er an d printers' or 
" ie - suitable 

; nnage of the print, whi is 



^drr^U ,^ u } ta ble paper is then laid on 
* rev^r - Wlth a drv roller. This gives 
V^-.^age of the print, which ti 
£ to a zinc P^te or a lithogra 
sile d BuH 0n l e, a,1<1 as man y prints as de 
Method \vf Ln the usual lithographing 



"ight ki' n j Wllen carefully done and the 

**imit»r paper used * is said that 
ei fety deu^ 11 of the °"g in al is perfect in 



To Copy Old Letters, Manuscripts etc 
—If written in the commercial ffif ♦! ' 
period from 1SC0 to 1864 wWh ^ 
almost universally an iron n nil. - WaS 
pnllir-nnidinL f>,„ * 11 ■ and tannin or 
gallic-acid ink, the following process mav 
succeed: Make a thin solution^ of gluc^f 
or honey, m water, and with ihis wet the 
paper m the usually observed way in 
copying recent documents in the letter 
book, put in the press, and screw down 
tightly. Let it remain in the press some- 
what longer than in copying recent docu- 
ments. VV hen removed, before attempt- 
ing to separate the papers, expose to the 
fumes of strong water of ammonia, codv 
side downward. 

CORDAGE: 

See also Ropes. 

Strong Twine.— An extraordinarily 
strong pack thread or cord, stronger eve 
than the so-called " Zuckerschnur," may 
be obtained by laying the thread of fibers 
in a strong solution of alum, and then 
carefully drying them. 

Preservation of Fishing Nets. — The 
following recipe for the preservation of 
fishing nets is also applicable to ropes, 
etc., in contact with water. Some have 
been subjected to long test. 

For 40 parts of cord, hemp, or cot- 
ton, 8 parts of kutch, 1 part of blue 
vitriol, \ part of potassium chromate, 
and 2A parts of wood tar are required. 
The kutch is boiled with 150 parts of 
water until dissolved, and then the blue 
vitriol is added. Next, the net is entered 
ana the tar added. The whole should 
be stirred well, and the cordage must boil 
5 to 8 minutes. Now take out the net- 
ting, lay it in another vessel, cover up 
wed and leave alone for 12 hours. After 
that it is dried well, spread out in a clean 
place, and coated with hnseed oil. JNot 
Lfore 6 hours have elapsed shouk I A be 
folded together and put in * 0 ^ e 
The treatment with linseed oil may De 

omitted. 

CORDAGE LUBRICANT: 

See Lubricants. 
CORDAGE WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing. 



CORDIALS: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

CORKS : which have 

Impervious Corks ; ^ sdd to be 

been steeped in i pe - ° . stoppers, 

or long disuae. 



224 



CORKS— CORN CURES 



Non-Porous Corks.— For benzine, tur- 
entine, and varnish cans, immerse the 
oTks in hot melted paraffine Keep 
em under about 5 minutes; hold them 
own with a piece of wire screen cut to 
t the dish in which you melt the parai- 
ne. When taken out lay them, on a 
creen till cool. Cheap corks can in this 
ay be made gas- and air-tight, and can 
e cut and bored with ease. 
Substitute for Cork.— Wood pulp or 
ther ligneous material may be treated 
o imitate cork. For the success of the 
omposition it is necessary that the con- 
stituents be mingled and treated under 
special conditions. The volumetric pro- 
portions in which these constituents 
combine with the best results are the fol- 
lowing: Wood pulp, 3 parts; cornstalk 
pith, 1 part; gelatin, 1 part; glycerine, 
1 part; water, 4 parts; 20 per cent formic- 
aldehyde solution, 1 part; but the pro- 
portions may be varied. After disinte- 
grating the ligneous substances, and 
while these are in a moist and hot condi- 
tion they are mingled with the solution 
of gelatin, glycerine, and water. The 
mass is stirred thoroughly so as to obtain 
a homogeneous mixture. The excess of 
moisture is removed. As a last opera- 
tion the formic aldehyde is introduced, 
and the mass is left to coagulate in this 
solution. The formic aldehyde renders 
the product insoluble in nearly all liquids. 
So it is in this last operation that it is 
necessary to be careful in producing the 
composition properly. When the oper- 
ation is terminated the substance is sub- 
mitted to pressure during its coagulation, 
either by molding it at once into a desired 
form, or into a mass which is afterwards 
converted into the finished product. 

CORKS, TO CLEAH": 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, under Miscellaneous Methods. 
CORK TO METAL, FASTENING-: 

See Adhesives, under Pastes. 

CORK AS A PRESERVATIVE: 
See Preserving. 

CORKS, "WATERPROOFING: 
See Waterproofing. 

CORN CURES: 

I.— Salicylic- Acid Com Cure.— Extract 
cannabis indica, 1 part, by measure; 
salicylic acid, 10 parts, by measure; oil 
or turpentine, 5 parts, by measure; acetic 
acid, glacial, 2 parts, by measure; coca, 
ine, aikaloidal, % parts, by measure; col- 
lodion, elastic, sufficient to make 100 
parts. Apply a thin coating every night, 
putting each layer directly on the pre- 



ceding one. After a few antrt' 
the mass drops off, bringing the in H** 10 * 8 ' 
portion, and frequently the whole 
corn, off with it. c 01 the 

II.— Compound Salicylated Cmi 
Corn Cure.-Salicylic acVu Dn ? dl ? n 
weight; extract of Indian hemp o by 
by weight; alcohol, 10 p ar t Sj *f T X 
flexible collodion, U. S. P a „3^ ht; 
quantity to ma ke 100 parts/by 

The exiract is dissolved in the al o I 
md the acid in about 50 parts, by 
if collodion, the solutions mixpH 8 i 



, mixed, ancT 
liquid _rnade up to the 



ai 
of 

the „ n — lu uie rcqui red 

amount. 1 he Indian hemp is presum 
ably intended to prevent pain; whether it 
serves this or any other useful purpose 
seems a matter of doubt. The acid i 
frequently used without this addition. 

III. — Extract of cannabis indica, DO 
grains; salicylic acid, 1 ounce; alcohol 1 
ounce; collodion enough to make 10 
ounces. Soften the extract with the 
alcohol, then add the collodion, and 
•lastly the acid. 

IV. — Resorcin, 1 part, by weight; 
salicylic acid, 1 part, by weight; lactic 
acid, 1 part, by weight; collodion elasti- 
cum, 10 parts, by weight. Paint the 
corn daily for 5 or 0 days with the above 
solution and take a foot bath in very hot 
water. The corn will readily come off. 

Corn Plaster. — Yellow wax, 24 parts, 
by weight; Venice turpentine, 3 parts, 
by weight; rosin, 3 parts, by weight; 
salicylic acid, 2 parts, by weight; balsam 
of Peru, £ parts, by weight; lanolin, 4 
parts, by weight. 

Corn Cure.— Melt soap plaster, 85 
parts, by weight, and yellow wax, 5 parts 
by weight, in a vapor bath, and stir finely 
ground salicylic acid, 10 parts, by weight, 
into it. 

Removal of Corns.— The liquid used 
by chiropodists with pumice stone for MS 
removal of corns and callosities is usuau 
nothing more than a solution of potass 
or concentrated lye, the pumice stou 
being dipped into the solution by ^ 
operator just before using. _ 

Treatment of Bunions.— Wear » 
and left stockings and shoes, tnc i _ 
edges of the sole of which arc : P? rre J 
straight. The bunion is bat heo J ^ 
and morning in a 4 per cent sui c( j 
carbolic acid for a few minutes, to . 
by plain water. If, after seven, M ft 
the bursa is still distended witn ^ 
is aspirated. If the bunion J* ie 
flatfoot, the arch of the foot* u . iots 
restored by a plate. When 
are enlarged because of gout or 



CORN CURES— COSMETICS 



t u e constitutional conditions must 
fe^'- teA. J n ot ^ ier ca ?es, osteotomy 



||SotQmy are required. 



The 



may 



Treatment of Corns. — Any corn 
dily and permanently cured. 



be sp 



treatment is of three kinds— preven- 
■ nalliative, and curative. _ 
t --The preventive treatment lies m 
. finer such measures as will secure 
8 ? „f from pressure and friction for 
^ mostLble to corns To this 
pnd a well-fitting shoe is essential. The 
1 les should be of well-seasoned leather, 
loft and elastic, and should be cut to a 
nroner model. 

II —The palliative treatment is gen- 
erally carried out with chemical sub- 
stances The best method, is, briefly, 
as follows: A ring of glycerine jelly is 
painted around the circumference of the 
corn, to form a raised rampart. A piece 
of salicylic plaster mull is then cut tothe 
size and shape of the central depression, 
and applied to the surface of the corn. 
This is then covered with a layer of glyc- 
erine jelly, and before it sets a pad of 
cotton wool is applied io the surface. 
This process is repeated as often as is 
necessary, until the horny layer separates 
and is cast off. 

If the point of a sharp, thin-bladed 
knife be introduced at the groove which 
runs around the margin of the corn, and 
be made to penetrate toward its central 
axis, by the exercise of a little manual 
dexterity the horny part of the corn can 
be easily made to separate from the parts 
oeneatL 

lil-— Any method of treatment to be 
curative must secure the removal of the 
enhr e corn, together with the under- 

W$ u Ursa " Ifc is ma i nlv i Q connection 
the latter structure that complica- 
tes, which alone make a corn a matter 
serious import, are likely to arise, 
com l confidcntl y advises the full and 
mpiete excision of corns, on the basis 
j«s experience in upward of 60 cases. 

to rS,?[ ecaution . havin g bccn taken 
selecw ft ,i °P e r atlon aseptic, a spot is 
Nation t^ 6 ln J e . ction of the anaesthetic 
sitive x : u. i s rendered insen- 

of a 4 ; ltQ eth yl chloride, and 5 minims 
kcted if ° e i!* s °lution of cocaine is in- 
acat}. ii? e su bcutaneous tissue be- 
- a the corn. 1 "■ 



of the i • ■ su P erfi cial parts of the site 
etbv^M 11 - are ren dered insensitive 
c ° m plete ride - Anaesthesia is now 

&t theb Sea i ielli P 1 ? ual inci sions meeting 
^ e skin extrerai tie3 are made through 
ar °und the circumference of the 



After a wait of a few 



£25 

growth, care beine taken fh.f +T, 
etrate well i nto thl ' they - P cn " 
Seising the parts f inVudeT fn tffin*^ 
with a pair of diMectiSSfo.ie^Vwi'i 1011 

antiH S °^me^ 3 r C es g g ^^ ^ 
small vessel; but the^h^^fi 
never severe The edges of the wlund 
are brought together by one or two fine 
sutures; an antiseptic dressing is armlied 
and the wound is left to liefi-pSy 
union in a tew days being the rule The 
rapidity of the healing i s often phenom- 
enal . 1 h ere is produced a scar tissue at 
the site of the corn, but this leads to no 
untoward results. 

Cosmetics 

COLD CREAM. 

I. — Oil of almonds .... 425 parts 

Lanolin 185 parts 

White wax. 62 parts 

Spermaceti 62 parts 

Borax 4.5 parts 

Rose water 300 parts 

Melt together the first four ingredients, 
then incorporate the solution of borax in 
the rose water. 

II. — Tragacanth 125 parts 

Boric acid 100 parts 

Glycerine... 140 parts 

Expressed oil of al- 
monds 50 parts 

Glyconine 50 parts 

Oil of lavender.. .. 0.5 parts 
Water enough to 

make 1.000 parts 

Mix the tragacanth and the boric 
acid with the glycerine; add the almond 
oil, lavender oil, and egg glycerrte which 
have been previously well incorpowte^ 
and, lastly, add the, water in dmded 
portions until a clear jelly of the desired 
consistency is obtained. 
III.-OU offends . » = 
Castor oil (odorless/. " s 
LardCbenzoated)..- | ounces 

White wax 

Rose water (in win- 
ter less, in sum- 
mer more, than 

Oil of rose. . ' 6 drachms 

Extract of jasmine . . o a 
Extract of cassia..-- j dxac^ 

Borax. ^ oun ces 

Glycerine 



£36 



COSMETICS 



Melt the oil of sweet almonds, wax, and 
lard together, and stir in the castor oil; 
make a solution of the borax in the 
glycerine and rose and orange-flower 
waters- add this solution, a little at a 
time, to the melted fat, _ stirring con- 
stantly to insure thorough incorporation; 
finally add the oil of rose dissolved in the 
extracts, and beat the ointment until 

cold. . , 

IV.— Spermaceti (pure), i ounce; 
white wax (pure), } ounce; almond oil, i 
pound; butter of cocoa, i pound; lano- 
lin, 2 ounces. 

Melt and stir in 1 drachm of balsam 
of Peru. After settling, pour off the clear 
portion and add 2 fluidrachms of orange- 
flower water and stir briskly until it 
concretes. 

Camphorated Cold Cream. — 

Oil of sweet al- 
monds 8 fluidounces 

White wax 1 ounce 

Spermaceti 1 ounce 

Camphor 1 ounce 

Rose water 5 fluidounces 

Borax (in fine pow- 
der) 4 drachms 

Oil of rose 10 drops 

Melt the wax and spermaceti, add the 
oil of sweet almonds, in which the cam- 

Ehor has been dissolved with very gentle 
eat; then gradually add the rose water, 
in which the borax has previously been 
dissolved, beating or agitating con- 
stantly with a wooden spatula until cold. 
Lastly add the oil of rose. 

Petrolatum Cold Cream. — 

Petrolatum (white).. , 7 ounces 

Paraffine \ ounce 

Lanolin. 2 ounces 

Water 3 ounces 

Oil of rose 3 drops 

Alcohol i drachm 

A. small quantity of borax may be 

added, if desirable, and the perfume may 

be varied to suit the taste. 

LIP SALVES: 

Pomades for trie Lips.— Lip pomatum 
which is said always to retain a hand- 
some red color and never to grow rancid 
la prepared as follows : 

I — Paraffine 80 . 0 parts 

Vaseline 80 . 0 parts 

Anchusine n.5 par ts 

«ergamot oil I. Opart 

Lemon peel 1.0 part 

II.— Vaseline Pomade. — 

Vp.sdine oil, white. . . 1,000 parts 
^ax, white 300 parts 



40 

20 



Geranium oil, Afri- 
can 

Lemon oil 

III. — Rose Pomade. — 

Almond oil i 0oo 

Wax, white 30Q 

Aikannin g 

Geranium oil 

IV. — Yellow Pomade. 

Vaseline oil, white. 1,000 

Wax, white 'g>oq 

Spermaceti gQO 

Saffron surrogate. }Q 
Clove oil 20 

V. — White Pomade.— 

Vaseline oil, white. 

Wax, white 

Bitter almond oil, 

genuine 

Lemon oil 



parts 
Parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



Parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



1,000 
300 

10 

49.0 



part's 
parts 



parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 



VI. — ParaflSne 

Vaseline 49 , 0 

Oil of lemon 0.15 parts 

Oil of violet 0.7 j parts 

Carmine, quantity sufficient. 

Lipol. — -For treating sore, rough, or 
inflamed lips, apply the following night 
and morning, rubbing in well with the 
finger tips: Camphor, \ ounce; men- 
thol, •§ ounce; eucalyptol, 1 drachm; 
petrolatum (white), 1 pound; paraffine, 
\ pound; alkanet root, $ ounce; oil of 
bitter almonds, 15 drops; oil of cloves, 
10 drops; oil of cassia, 5 drops. Digest 
the root in the melted paraffine and pe- 
trolatum, strain, add the other ingre. 
dients and pour into lip jars, hot. 

MANICURE PREPARATIONS: 
Powdered Nail Polishes.— 

I.— Tin oxide S drachms 

Carmine \ 4 rachnl 



Hose oil y 

Neroli oil « 

II. — Cinnabar * 

Infusorial earth ° 

4 



IV. 



III. — Putty powder (fine). 

Carmine * 

Oil of rose. * 

White castile soap. • ■ * 

Hot water lb 

Zinc chloride solu- 
tion, 10 per cent, 
quantity sufficient. d to 

Dissolve the soap in the water ^ ^ 



drops 
drops 

drachm 
drachms 

drachms 
grains 
drop 

part 
parts 



the solution add the zinc-chloride 



oc- 



tion 
curs 



until no further precipiW ■ fhe 
Let stand over night; P^pjtaM 



supernatant fluid, wash the 



COSMETICS 



.a. *ater, and dry at the ordinary 
weU «** * 1 Carmine may be added if 

deS r hinfr Pastes for the Nails.— 
polisiwns * ■ 5 drachms 



Stannous oxide . . . . . 
powdered tragacanth 

Ro^ water," quantity 

sufficient. 
Solution of carmme 

sufficient to tint. 



3 drachms 
5 grains 
1 drachm 



drachm 
y % drachm 
1 ounce 



? or softening the nails, curing hang- 
?? rtc an ointment is sometimes used 

D itinir of white petrolatum, 8 parts; 

23S3 castile soap, 1 part; an£ per- 

Sme to suit. 

H.-Eoaine ?? §™ 1 ™ 

White wax 

Spermaceti 

Soft paraffine 

Alcohol, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the eosine in as little alcohol 
*s will suffice, melt the other ingredients 
together, add the solution, and stir until 
cool. 

Nail-Cleaning Washes. — 

£— Tartaric acid 1 drachm 

Tincture of myrrh . . 1 drachm 

Cologne water 2 drachms 

Water 3 ounces 

Dissolve the acid in the water; mix 
the tincture of myrrh and cologne, and 
add to the acid solution. 

Dip the nails in this solution, wipe, 
and polish with chamois skin. 

1 — Benzoin Nail Enamel. — 

Benzoin 7 oz. 

Alcohol 95% 14 oz. 

Meth. ether "... 14 oz. 

Methyl acetophenone . 1 gram 
.5% solution of eosine 4 drops 
Dry the nails and apply the varnish 
*rth a camel's hair brush. Before apply- 
jjS the second coat allow the first to dry 
r>°ut 3 minutes. Allow the second coat 
£jm ? for 10 minutes and rub to a high 
Pish with a silk handkerchief. 
, J*m polish is brilliant and will remain 
or several days. 

U—Naii Enamel.— 

^Moid 1/5 oz. 

Ainyl acetate 2 era. 

^ et °ne 6 oz. 

i e 1 gram 

deanli 6 the celluloid which may be 
tui-e nf ^"'"G Picture film in the mix- 
^essn amyl aceta te and acetone. If 
syrmjvT Warm sightly to obtain a 
bottle ^id. Keep in well stoppered 



oa, 
1 oz. 



t ie nails with enamel remover cleanse 
them thoroughly and apply the eSmri 
with a camel's hair brush* Do not a P ^ 
the second coat until the first has 
perfectly. Caution.-Do not bring 
flame when making or applying. 

I — Nail Polish Remover— 

Amyl Acetate j 

Acetone 

II. 

Alcohol 1 oz, 

Ether i ^ 

Acetone i 0iiw 

Apply to the nails with a brush and 
before it drys rub off with a cloth. 

REMOVER FOR CUTICLE: 

Sodium hydroxide . , 4 ounces 

Water , , 2% gallons 

Dissolve these two items in a stone jat 
to which add two ounces of glycerine 
thirty drops of oil of rose geranium, 
this mixture is then put in bottles ha\ 
corks for stoppers, the corks should 
dipped in melted paraffin wax. 

POMADES: 

I Herb Pomade. — 

Vaseline oil, yellow 20,000 parts 
Ceresine, yellow . . 5,000 parts 

Chlorophyll 20 parts 

Lemon oil 50 parts 

Clove oil v 20 P arts 

Geranium oil, Afri- 
can 

Curled mint oil . . • 

IL— Rose Pomade.— 
Vaseline oil, white. 20,000 parte 
Ceresine, white ... 6,000 parts 

Alkannin lS P arte 

Geranium oil, Afn- gQ ^ 



12 parts 
■i parts 



can 



M~oU.... 
Lemon oil r 

the strawberry season is on ana | 

are plenty and cheap, the ion 

timely: 

Strawberries, ripe and ^ 

lir^weetandf^h 25 parts 

quantity suffic^t. 
Eslential 0*, quantify 
sufficient to perfume. 



water. Have the str •» the allan et 



en pour the mixture over the berries, 
tir the strained fats until the mass be- 
ins to set, then add the perfume and 
ir in- A little artificial essence of 
rawberries may be added. The odor 
suaUy employed is rose, about 1 drop to 
ery 2 pounds. 
IV — Stick Pomade^ 

Tallow 500 parts 

Ceresine 150 parts 

Wax, yellow 50 parts 

Rosin, light 200 parts 

Paraffine oil (thick) . . 300 parts 

Oil of cassia 5 parts 

Oil of bergamot 5 parts 

Oil of clove 2 parts 

V. — Petrolatum Pomade. — Melt 250 
• parts of freshly rendered lard and 25 
parts of white wax at moderate heat and 
hhi't well with 200 parts of Petrolatum. 
Add 15 parts of bergamot oil, 3 parts of 
lavender oil, 2 parts of geranium oil, and 
2 parts of lemon oil, mixing well, 

;VI_Witch-Hazel Jelly.— 

Oil of sweet almonds 256 parts 
Extract of witch-hazel 

fluid 10 parts 

Glycerine 32 parts 

Soft soap 20 parts 

Tincture of musk, quantity suf- 
ficient to perfume. 

Mix in a large mortar the glycerine 
and soft soap and stir until incorporated. 
Add and rub in the witch-hazel, and 
then add the oil, slowly, letting it fall 
m a very thin, small stream, under con- 
stant agitation; add the perfume, keep- 
ing up the agitation until complete in- 
corporation is attained. Ten drops of 
musk to a quart of jelly is sufficient. 
Any other perfume may be used. 

„„| C0l T f °I f^de. ^Pomade may be 
colored red by infusing alkanet in the 
grease; yellow may be obtained by using 
ehw\ ln n the -fi am - R Way; an oil-soluble 

pff g,ve a 8reen color ^ 

In coloring grease by means of alkanet 
or annotto rt is best to tie the drug up i n 

E£ w V E grease ' heat S^tly, squeez- 
ed rti ro ^?™™ time to time; 

grease to the remainder. This nroee- 
du« . obviates exposing the entire^as 

strand ? & } th * r ^cantation nor 

straining i s needed. 

Brocq's Pomade for Itching.— 
Acidphenic 1 Dar r 



Acid tartaric ... „ 
Glyeeroleof part s 

sta ; ch -; 60t °l°0p arta 

Mix and make a pomade. 

^Vhite Cosmetique. ■ 

Jasmine pomade. a 

Tuberose pomade." ' ' % ° Unce s 

White wax.. " fences 

Refined suet... A ° Unc es 

Rose oil ,J °H Q 9 e s 

10 muums 



Melt the wax and suet o 
bath, then add the pomades Tn r r rt r 
the otto. V b ' and fi ially 

Glycerine and Cucumber Jelly.— 
Gelatin lflO to 240 grains 

acid 240 grains 

ferine 0 flnidounces 

Water 10 fluidouncS 

Perfume to suit. The perfume must 
be one that mixes without opalescence 
otherwise it mars the beauty of the pre? 
aration. Orange-flower water or rose 
water could be substituted for the water 
if desired, or another perfume consisting 

Spirit of vanillin (15 

grains per ounce). % fluidrachms 
Spirit of eouinarin 
(15 grains per 

ounce) 2 fluidrachms 

Spirit of bitter al- 
monds H) ..... . 8 minims 

to the quantities given above would 
prove agreeable. 

Cucumber Pomade. — 

Cucumber pomade. . 2 ounces 
Powdered white soap. i ounce 
Powdered borax. ... . 2 drachms 
Cherry-laurel water. . 3 ounces 

Rectified spirit 3 ounces 

Distilled water to make 48 ounces 
Rub the pomade with the soap and 
borax until intimately mixed, then add 
the distilled water (which may be 
warmed to blood heat), ounce by ounce, 
to form a smooth and uniform cream. 
When 40 ounces of water have been so 
incorporated, dissolve any essential oils 
desired as perfume in the spirit, and aa 
the cherry-laurel water, making up t° 
48 ounces with plain water. 

ROUGES AND PAIWTS: 

Grease Paints.— Theatrical facep««JJ 
are sold in sticks, and there ire njanj 
varieties of color. Yellows are obtain* 
with ocher; browns with burnt umu« > 
and blue is made with ultra^u^ 
These colors should in each case be ie 
gated finely along with their own V 



COSMETICS 



229 



av. ounces 
av. ounces 



av. ounces 
av. ounces 



%i fluidounces 
grains 
flui drachms 



1 narts of precipitated chalk and 
of ( zmc and diluted with the same to 
0 t M °i required, then made into sticks 
mutton suet (or vaseline or paraf- 

ff pluiai P arts ) wel1 P erfunied - B y 

fine. ?4 these colors, other tints may 

tfhite Grease Paints.— 
t .^prepared chalk . . 4 
Zinc oxide. ....... 4 

Bismuth subni- 

tr£it& * ■ 

Asbestos powder. 4 
Sweet almond oil, 

about 

Camphor.. ...... 40 

Oil peppermint. . . 3 
Eaobouquet ex- 

tract S nuidrachms 

Sufficient almond oil should be used 
to form a mass of proper consistence. 

II.— Zinc oxide 8 parts 

Bismuth subnitrate . . 8 parts 
Aluminum oxychlor- 

{d e 8 parts 

Almond oil, quantity sufficient, or 

5-6 parts. 
Perfume, quantity sufficient. 

Mix the zinc, bismuth, and aluminum 
oxycMoride thoroughly; make into a paste 
with the oil. Any perfume may be added, 
but that generally used is composed of 1 
drachm of essence of bouquet, 12 grains 
of camphor, and 12 minims of oil of pep- 
permint for every 3 J ounces of paste. 

Bright Red.— 

Zinc oxide 10 parts 

Bismuth subnitrate.. . 10 parts 
Aluminum oxychlor- 

ide. . . . . 10 parts 

Almond oil, quantity sufficient. 

Mix the zinc, bismuth, and aluminum 
m% and to every 4 ounces of the mix- 
U j e a <j d 2£ grains of eosine dissolved in 
aiachm of essence of bouquet, 12 minims 
dK P e PP ern " n t, and 12 grains of cam- 
pnor. Make the whole into a paste with 
almond oil. 



snd oil. 
Red.— 

Cacao butter 

^bite wax 

Olive oil 

Oil of rose . , . 
JMof bergamo**. 
ijH °f neroli. . 
lecture musk . . 

Ammonia water . 



4 av- ounces 
4 av. ounces 

2 fluidounces 
8 drops 

3 drops 
2 drops 

2 drops 
90 grains 

3 nuidrachms 



Deep, or Bordeaux, Red.— 
Zinc oxide q ft _ . 

Bismuth subnitrate.:.' SO par s 
Aluminum oxychlor- pans 

carmine:;::::::::;; 3 5^ 

Ammonia water g ^ arts 

Essence bouquet 3 parts 

Peppermint, camphor, etc., quan- 
tity sufficient. 
Mix the zinc, bismuth, and aluminum 
salts. Dissolve the carmine in the am- 
monia and add solution to the mixture 
Add 24 grains of camphor, and 24 minims 
of oil oi peppermint dissolved in the 
essence bouquet, and make the whole 
into a paste with oil of sweet almonds. 

Vermilion. — 

Vermilion 18 parts 

Tincture of saffron. . 12 parts 

Orris root, powdered 30 parts 

Chalk, precipitated. . 120 parts 

Zinc oxide 120 parts 

Camphor 2 parts 

Essence bouquet. ... 9 parts 

Oil of peppermint. . . 2 parts 
Almond oil, quantity sufficient. 

Mix as before. 

Pink.— 

Zinc carbonate 250 parts 

Bismuth subnitrate.. 250 parts 

Asbestos.. . . . 250 parts 

Expressed oil of al- 
monds 100 parts 

Camphor 55 parts 

Oil of peppermint . . 55 parts 

Perfume # 5 P arts 

Eosine 1 P art 

Dark Red.— Like the preceding, 
colored with a solution of carmine. 

Rouge.— 

Zinc oxide.... ffXces 

Bismuth subnitrate . . 8* ounces 
Aluminum plumbate. ti ounces^ 

Eosine • 0 drachms 

Essence bouquet » a rac hms 

Oil^fpepnermint.;.:: ^ minims 
Almond oi quantity sufficient. 
Dissolve the. eosine in the ^ esse ;nce 
bouquet, and m.| £th ^ make 
peppermint; add the po 
fnto a paste with almond on- 



Black Grease Paints.— 



2 av. ounces 
-Soot. ■ - • • - ■%■':[ * o fluidounces 

S/^S 6 jounces 
Cacao butter. . ; . 
Perfume, sufficient. 



$30 



COSMETICS 



The soot should, be derived from 
hurnin^ camphor and repeatedly washed 
% aleobol . It should be triturated to 
« smooth mixture with the oil; then add 
to the melted cacao butter; add the per- 
fume, and form into sticks. 

Brown or other colors may be obtained 




going' base instead of lampblack. 

II.— Best lampblack 1 drachm 

Cacao butter 3 drachms 

Olive oil 3 drachms 

Oil of neroli 2 drops 

Melt the cacao butter and oil, add the 
lampblack, and stir constantly as the 
mixture cools, adding the periume 
toward the end. 

HI.— Lampblack 1 part 

Cacao butter 6 parts 

Oil neroli, sufficient. 
Melt the cacao butter and the lamp- 
black, and while cooling make an inti- 
mate mixture, adding the perfume toward 
the last. 

IV.— Lampblack. 1 part 

Expressed oil of al- 
monds 1 part 

Oil cocoanut 1 part 

Perfume, sufficient. 

Beat the lampblack into a' stiff paste 
with glycerine. Apply with a sponge; 
if necessary, mix a little water with it 
when using. 

V. — Beat the finest lampblack into a 
stiff paste with glycerine and apply with 
a sponge; if necessary, add a little water 
to the mixture when using. Or you can 
make a grease paint as follows: Drop 
black, 2 drachms; almond oil, 2 drachms; 
cocoanut oil, 6 drachms; oil of lemon, 5 
minims; oil of neroli, 1 minim. Mix. 

Fatty Face Powders.— These have a 
«mall percentage of fat mixed with them 
in order to make the powder adhere to 
the skin. 

Dissolve 1 drachm anhydrous lano- 
a i in 2 drachms of ether in a mortar. 
Add 3 drachms of light magnesia. Mix 
well, dry, and then add the following: 
French chalk, 2 ounces; powdered 
starch, 1$ ounces; boric acid, 1 drachm; 
perfume, a. sufficient quantity. A good 
perfume is coumarin, 2 grains, and attar 
ot rose, 2 minims. 

•Fv 0 ^? utt 7-— L— Mix 1 ounce wheat flour 
witn I drachms of powdered tragacanth 
and tint with carmine. Take as much 
°* ttLe Powder aa necessary, knead into a 



stiff paste with a little water and 
to the nose, having previously t,^^ P ?V 
with spirit gum. 3 P ain ted it 

II.— White wax, 8 parts; rosin «,v 
8 parts; mutton suet, i parts- ,Li te > 
suit. Melt together. V ' Col °* to 

Rose Powder.-As a base take m 
parts of powdered iris root, add finn „ 
of rose petals, 100 parts of sandaljS? 
100 parts of patchouli, 3 parts of oil i 
geranium, and 2 parts of true rose oil. 

Rouge Tablets.— There are two di s 
tinct classes of these tablets: those S 
which the_ coloring matter is carniin 
and those in which the aniline colors are 
used. The best are those prepared with 
carmine, or ammonium carminate to 
speak more correctly. The following is 
an excellent formula: 

Ammonium carminate. . . 10 parts 

Talc, in powder 25 p ar ( s 

Dextrin 8 parts 

Simple syrup, sufficient. 
Perfume, to taste, sufficient. 

Mix the tale and dextrin and add the 
perfume, preferably in the .shape of an 
essential oil (attar of rose, synthetic oil of 
jasmine, or violet, etc.), using 6 to 8 
drops to every 4 ounces of other in- 
gredients. Incorporate the ammonium 
carminate and add just enough simple 
svrup to make a mass easily rolled out. 
Out into tablets of the desired size. The 
ammonium carminate is made by adding 
1 part of carmine to 2i parts of strung 
ammonia water. Mix in a vial, cork 
tightly, and set aside until a solutionis 
formed, shaking occasionally. The am- 
monium carminate is made by dissolving 
carmine in ammonia water to saturation. 

Rouge Palettes.— To prepare rouge 
palettes rub up together: 

Carmine 9 P arts 

French chalk 50 parts 

Almond oil 12 parts 

Add enough tragacanth nnieilage t° 
make the mass adhere and spread m 
whole evenly on the porcelain palette. 



Liquid Rouge. — 

I. — Carmine ; ■ 

Stronger ammonia 

water J P ar ! 

Essence of rose .. ■ ■ 16 P ar * 
Rose water to make. 500 parts 

Mix. A very delightful violet odor,^ 
this is preferred, is obtained "J^^ 
ionone in place of rose essence. J . 
preparation may be made as ton 



4 parts 



COSMETICS 



231 



. 1 part 

^fied water «J parts 

100 P arts 

Jfub together with 10 parts of almond 
, Bu 5 Vdd sufficient mucilage of traga- 
01 i f t make the mass adhere to the 

^Carmine : ■ 1 part 

U Stronger ammonia 

water ■ } P* r f 

Attar of rose 4 parts 

Rose water 125 parts 

Mix Any other color may be used 
{„ nlace of rose, violet (ionone), for in- 
t„nce or heliotrope. A cheaper prep- 
aration may be made by substituting 
eosine for the carmine, as follows: 

IV -Eosine 1 part 

Distilled water. . . . 20 parts 

Glycerine 5 parts 

Cologne water 75 parts 

Alcohol 100 parts 

Mix. 



4 drachms 
16 fluidounces 



21 drachms 



Peach Tint.— 

o.— Buffalo eosine .... 
Distilled water 

Mix. 

b.— Pure hydrochloric 

acid 

Distilled water 64 fluidounces 

Mix. 

Pour a into b, shake, and set aside for a 
few hours; then pour off the clear por- 
tion and collect the precipitate on a 
alter. Wash with the same amount of 
* and immediately throw the precipitate 
into a glass measure, stirring in with a 
glass r od sufficient of 6 to measure 16 
^nce S ln all. Pass through a hair sieve 
10 get out any filtering paper. To every 

0 0ll nces add 8 ounces of glycerine. 

Theater Rouge.— Base: 

Cornstarch 4 drachms 

i^wdered white tal- 

ir . cum 6 drachms 

Mix. 

^-Carralnoline 10 grains 

W a \ e 6 drachms 

y . ater 4 drachms 

ix u,:?i V , e , tDe carminoline in the water, 



mix toM ,, uc ^arminoime 
b lx ^th the base and dry. 



eranium red 10 grains 

6 drachms 



Base. , 

|Vat eE ;.;;; 

lix as above 



4 drachms 



SKIN FOODS. 

Wrinkles on the face vielrf t„ 
consisting of 50 rmrU i n ° , a Wash 
(made wfth rose S ^ 4 ° f « ] ?™** 
minum sulphate. Use rnorilt PS ? 3 - a U " 
Rough stin is iKBSi 
in Vichy water. Resides this r«S 
places are to have the follow Sg UpS? 
tlon twice dady-either a few drops of : 



-Rose water i 00 partB 

parts 
I part 



glycerine 25 parts 

lannm a . 



Mix. Or use: 
II.— Oran 



Orange-flower water 100 parts 

Glycerine iq parts 

Borax 2 parts 

Mix. Sig.: Apply twice daily. 

" Beauty Cream. "- 



id dry. 



- j -This formula gives 

the skin a beautiful, smooth, and fresh 
appearance, and, at the same time, serves 
to protect and preserve it: 

Alum, powdered 10 grams 

"Whites of 2 eggs 

Boric acid 3 grams 

Tincture of benzoin . . 40 drops 

Olive oil 40 drops 

Mucilage of acacia. . . 5 drops 
Kice flour, quantity sufficient. 
Perfume, quantity sufficient. 

Mix the alum and the white of eggs, 
without any addition of water whateve 
in an earthen vessel, and dissolve the aim 
by the aid of very gentle heat (derive 
from a lamp, or gaslight, regulated to 
very small flame), and constant, eve 
stirring. This must continue until th 
aqueous content of the albumen is com 
pletely driven off. Care must be take? 
to avoid coagulation of the albuine. 
(which occurs very easily, as all know) 
Let the mass obtained in this manner <«■ 
completely cold, then throw into a We 
wooS mortar, add the bone acid tin 
ture of benzoin, oil, mucilage n st^a 
of which a solution of 

be used), ^ c -. ^1 ^ li L of uffi- 
thickening it with the ^dditwn of «u 
cient rice flour to give ; the desrrea 
S istence, and Uf^^/fat or fatty 
otialtVeiev^C^neor^ 

erine. 

Face Bleach or Beautlfier 

Syrupy lactic acid..-, jounces 

Glycerine... 5 gallons 

Distilled water ° 

Mix. Gradually add 

Tincture of benzoin.. S ounc 
,lor by adding 



en, 



get 



2S2 



COSMETICS 



drachm 

drachm 

drachm 

drachms 

ounces 

drachms 



Carmine No. 40 40 grains 

Glycerine 1 ounce 

Ammonia solution. . . £ ounce 

Water to 3 ounces 

Heat this to drive off the ammonia, 

and mix all. Shake, set aside; then 

filter, and add 

Solution of ionone.. .. 1 drachm 
Add a few drachms of kaolin and 

filter until bright. 

BLACKHEAD REMEDIES. 

I. — Lactic acid 1 

Boric acid 1 

Ceresine 1 

Paraffine oil 6 

Hydrous wool fat. . . 1J 
Castor oil 6 

II. — Unna advises hydrogen dioxide 
in the treatment of blackheads, his pre- 
scription being: 

Hydrogen dioxide 20 to 40 parts 

Hydrous wool fat. . 10 parts 

Petrolatum 30 parts 

. — Thymol 1 part 

Boric acid 2 parts 

Tincture of witch- 
hazel 18 parts 

Rose water suffi- 
cient to make . . . 200 parts 

Mix. Apply to the face night and 
morning with a sponge, first washing the 
face with hot water and castilesoap, and 
drying it with a coarse towel, using force 
enough to start the dried secretions. An 
excellent^ plan is to steam the face by 
holding it over a basin of hot water, 
keeping the head covered with a cloth, 

IV.— Ichthyol 1 drachm 

Zinc oxide 2 drachms 

Starch 2 drachms 

Petrolatum 3 drachms 

This paste should be applied at night. 
The face should first be thoroughly 
steamed or washed in water as hot as 
can be comfortably borne. All pus- 
tules should then be opened and black- 
heads emptied with as little violence as 
possible. After careful drying the paste 
should be thoroughly rubbed into the 
attected areas. In the morning, after 
removing the paste with a bland soap, 
bathe with cool water and dry with little 
friction. 

HAND CREAMS AND LOTIONS: 
Chapped Skin.— 

I— Glycerine S parts 

Bay rum 4 p artg 

Ammonia water 4 parts 

Kose water 4 parts 



Mix the bay rum and glycerine 
the ammonia water, and finally th a<1( * 
water. It is especially efficacious B h" e 
shaving. us after 



Lving 

II. — As glycerine is bad for the 
of many people, here is a reclne l- n 
will be found more generally saSstaS 
as it contains less glycerine: Bav ^ 
S ounces; glycerine, \ ounce- dJF^ 
acid, } drachm (30 drops). Wash 4U° 
hands well and apply while hands 
soft, preferably just before eoirm +A & j e 
Rub m thoroughly. This rare.?- fcuf 
cure the worst "chaps" in two ISt 

III. -A .sure remedy f 0P cn " 
hands consists in keeping them carefully 
dry and greasing them now and then with 
an anhydrous fat (not cold cream). Th 
best substances for the purpose are un- 
guentum cereum or oleum olivarum 

If the skin of the hands is ahead? 
cracked the following preparation wilt 
heal it: 

Finely ground zinc oxide, 5.0 parts; 
bismuth oxychloride, 2.0 parts; with fat 
oil, 12.0 parts; next add glycerine, 5.0 
parts; lanolin, 30.0 parts; and scent with 
rose water, 10.0 parts. 

IV. — Wax salve (olive oil 7 parts, and 
yellow wax 3 parts), or pure olive oil. 

Hand-Cleaning Paste.— Cleaning pastes 
are composed of soap and grit, either 
with or without some free alkali. Any 
soap may be used, but a white soap is 
preferred. Castile soap does not make 
as firm a paste as soap made from animal 
fats, and the latter also lather better. 
For grit, anything may be used, from 
powdered pumice to fine sand. 

A good paste may be made by dissolv- 
ing soap in the least possible quantity of 
hot water, and as it cools and sets stirring 
in the grit. A good formula is: 

White soap 9\ pounds 

Fine sand 1 P ound 

Water H pints 

Lotion for the Hands.— 

Boric acid 1 drachm 

Glycerine e drachma 

Dissolve by heat and mix with 

Lanolin 6 drachm* 

Vaseline 1 ounce 

Add any perfume desired. The _bor«j 
ted glycerine should be cooled beror 
mixing it with the lanolin. 

Cosmetic Jelly. — 

Rose water 1* <f^M 

Macerate for two days aim fl 
forcibly through coarse muslin or v 





COSMETICS 



233 



, tj clycerine and alcohol, of 
d° th, i ounce. Perfume Lo suit. Use 
Mediately * 
< util dry. 



ejLcb } g rfter bathing, rubbing in 
^fun^ dry. 

* Hands — I. — Take rectified 

?et fKdoane, 50 parts (by weight); 
^ fna dve, 8 parts; glycerine, 3 
bell» doll h * t ly twice or three times a 
r tS ;S half a tabkspoonful of this 
da/ q w ma y also employ chalk, 
picture. ma gnesia f rice starch, hot 
carbouatt . ^ ^ (as hot &ud 

md u ls can be borne), during 6 min- 
CfolKwed by a solution of 4 parts of 
gfti in n of glycerine. 

TT —Rub the hands several times per 
,{ a y with the following mixture: 
' By weight 

Rose water 125 parts 

Borax 10 P ar ^ 

Glycerine 8 parts 

Hand Bleach. — Lanolin, SO parts ; 
Hycerine, 20 parts; borax 10 parts ; 
cucalyptol, 2 parts ; essential oil of al- 
monds, 1 part. After rubbing the hands 
with this mixture, cover them with gloves 
during the night. 

For the removal of developing stains, 
see Photography. 

MASSAGE CREAMS: 
Massage Application.— 

White potash soap, 

shaved 20 parts 

Glycerine 30 parts 

Water 30 parts 

Alcohol (90 per cent) . 10 parts 
Dissolve the soap by heating it with 
the glycerine and water, mixed. Add 
the alcohol, and for every 30 ounces of 
the solution add 5 or 6 drops of the mis- 
tura oleoso balsa mica, German Phar- 
macopoeia. Filter while hot. 

dedicated Massage Balls.— They are 
e "alls of paraffine wax molded with 
s "Woth or rough surface. Take equal 
I arts of camphor and menthol, a few 
Tops of oil of wintergreen and to this 
U^ntity add 10 times as much of paraf- 
anrt v. Se * m hi headaches, neuralgias, 
afivl- matic affections, and many other 
fictions 0 f the skin and bones. The 

ovbTS ° f V& ' 11 ^ thcm is to ro11 the bal1 
Palm * affec ted part by the aid of the 
tin Ue t? 16 ban d with pressure. Con- 
tion * Telief is obtained or a sensa- 
Hetlwi \ Wa ™th. The only external 
headarf, the treatme nt of all kinds of 
8a Ke h u is the ment hol medicated mas- 
Place Kee P wr apped in foil in a cool 



Casein. Massage Cream.-The basis of 



i ase,n ls , n °^ Produced very cheaply £ 
the powdered form, and by treatment 
with glycerine and perfumes It ifpoS 
to turn out a satii actory crea m P The 
following formula is sueirestpH ■ 



>wing lormuia suggested: 

Skimmed milk... i gallon 
Water ot ammonia. . 1 ounce 

Acetic acid i ounce 

Ui of rose geranium 1 drachm 
On oi bitter almond. 1 drachm 

Oil of anise S drachma 

Cold cream (see below), enough. 
Carmine enough to color. 

Add the water of ammonia to the milk 
and let it stand 24 hours. Then add 
the acetic acid and let it stand another 24 
hours. Then strain through cheese cloth 
and add the oils. Work this thoroughly 
in a Wedgwood mortar, adding enough 
carmine to color it a delicate pink. To 
the product thus obtained add an equal 
amount of cold cream made by the for- 
mula herewith given: 

White wax 4 ounces 

Spermaceti 4 ounces 

White petrolatum 12 ounces 

Rose water 14 ounces 

Borax 80 grains 

Melt the wax, spermaceti, and petrc 
latum together over a water bath; di 
solve the borax in the rose water and ad 
to the melted mass at one time. Agitate 
violently. Presumably the borax solu- 
tion should be of the same temperatv" 
as the melted mass. 
Massage Skin Foods.— 
This preparation is used in massage foi 
removing wrinkles: 

L-Whitewax i^Te 

Spe-aceti * ounce 

Cocoanutoil J ounce 

oTof 'sweet almonds 2 ounces 
Melt in a porcelain dish, remove fror 

the fire, and add 

Orange-flower water... 1 
Tincture of benzoin.- • * 
Beat briskly until creamy- 
II. -Snow- white cold ^ 

cream 4 oun ces 

Lanolin. ' 4 oU nces 

White petrolatum on 

Distilled water 

In hot weather add 1& drachi 

Spermaceti drachms 

White wax. 



ounce 
drops 



COSMETICS 



In winter the two latter are left out and 
the proportion of cocoa butter is modi- 
fied. Prepared and perfumed in pro- 
portion same as cold cream. 

jjl. — White petrolatum 7 av. ounces 
Paraffine wax. ... \ ounce 

Lanolin 2 av. ounces 

Water 3 fluidounces 

Oil of rose 3 drops 

Vanillin 2 grains 

Alcohol .-• 1 fluidrachm 

Melt the paraffine, add the lanolin and 
petrolatum, and when these have melted 
pour the mixture into a warm mortar, 
and, with constant stirring, incorporate 
the water. When nearly; cold add the 
oil and vanillin, dissolved in the alcohol. 

Preparations of this kind should be 
rubbed into the skin vigorously, as fric- 
tion assists the absorbed fat in developing 
the muscles, and also imparts softness 
and fullness to the skin. 

SKIN BLEACHES, BALMS, LOTIONS, 
ETC.: 

See also Cleaning Methods and Photog- 
raphy for removal of stains caused 
by photographic developers. 

Astringent Wash for Flabby Skin. — 
This is used to correct coarse pores, and 
to remedy an oily or flabby shin. Apply 
with sponge night and morning: 

Cucumber juice 1} ounces 

Tincture of benzoin . . \ ounce 

Cologne 1 ounce 

Elder-flower water. . . 5 ounces 
Put the tincture of benzoin in an 
8-ounce bottle, add the other ingredients, 

Previously mixed, and shake slightly, 
'here will be some precipitation of ben- 
zoin in this mixture, but it will settle out, 
or it may be strained out through cheese 
doth. 

\ Bleaching Skin Salves. — A skin-bleach- 
ing action, due to the presence of hydro- 
gen peroxide, is possessed by the follow- 
ing mixtures: 

I,— Lanolin 30 parts 

Bitter almond oil. . . , 10 parts 

Mix and stir with this salve base a 
solution of 

J*orax._ 1 part 

Glycerine 15 parts 

Hydrogen peroxide. . 15 parts 
For impure skin the following com- 
position is recommended: 
II. White mercurial oint- 

9 . m **t 5 grams 

f lnc ointment 5 grams 

j£? ollt \ SO grains 

Hitter almond oil. . . . 10 grams 



And gradually stir into this a c „i * 

of a s °iyti on 

Glycerine'.'.". i gtotaa 
Rose water...'. gFams 

Concentrated nitric grarns 

acid * j 

• • ■ • J arop 3 

III. — Lanolin o n 

Oil sweet almond'.!; g g£| 

Borax -■ & m3 

Glycerine [.]] ^ f*™ 

Solution hydrogen' 8 * ms 

P eroxide 15 grams 

Mix the lanolin and oil, then in 
porate the borax previously dissolved?* 
the mixture of glycerine and peroxiS 
solution. us 

IV. — Ointment ammoniac 

mercury 5 grams 

Ointment zinc oxide. 5 grams 

Lanolin.. 30 grams 

Oil sweet almond.. . 10 grams 

J orax .- 2 grams 

Glycerine 30 grams 

Rose water 10 grams 

Nitric acid, CP,,.. 5 drops 
Prepare in a similar manner as the 
foregoing. Hose oil in either ointment 
makes a good perfume. Both ointments 
may, of course, be employed as a general 
skin bleach, which, in fact, is their real 
office — cosmetic creams. 

Emollient Skin Balm. — 

Quince seed jounce 

Water. 7 ounces 

Glycerine 11 ounces 

Alcohol 41 ounces 

Salicylic acid 6 grains 

Carbolic acid 10 grains 

Oil of bay 10 drops 

Oil of cloves 5 drops 

Oil of orange peel 10 drops 

Oil of wintergreen 8 drops 

Oil of rose 2 drops 

Digest the quince seed in the water for 
24 hours, and then press through * 
cloth; dissolve the salicylic acid I m «J 
alcohol; add the carbolic acid to the glyc- 
erine; put all together, shake well, an 
bottle. 

Skin Lotion. — ■ 

Zinc sulphocarbo- 

late. 30 grains 

Alcohol (OOpercent) 4 
Glycerine * nuJU 

T neir C ° f C0CLi " 1 fluidrachm 
Orange-flower fl idounce s I 

water . - • A 3 Ml 

Rose water (triple) fl.-Mounces 

to make 0 n 




COSMETICS 



235 



niscoloration.— Discoloration of 
S^iTmiv b e removed by the use of 
t^'rtP simplest of which is that m 
ftC ids, tr ! D . , t ^ t h e action of this is too 
N« er ™! 4 ounces of lactic acid, 2 of 
g[0* V' an J 1 of rose water. These 



^ Jfmes daily with a soft hnen rag; 
e ral Quantity into a saucer and 

r r the cloth into this If the skin be- 
<»P 1 -ore use less of the remedy and 
c iT e \he redness and smarting with a 
A old cream. It is always an acid 
S . C mr .vM freckles and discolorations, 
KSTtheS off. It is well to be 
tXt ?v* until you find how severe 
ration is. It is not wise to try_ for 
t£ making any of the prescriptions 
Teh include corrosive sublimate or any 
other deadly poison. Peroxide of hydro- 
Sen diluted with 5 times as much water 
Slsowffl bleach discolorations. > Do not 
try any of these bleaches on a skin ireshly 
sunburned. For that, wash in hot water, 
or add to the hot water application enough 
mteh-hazel to scent the water, and after 
that has dried into the skin it will be soon 
enough to try other applications. 

Detergent for Skin Stains.— Moritz 
Weiss has introduced a detergent paste 
which will remove stains from the skin 
without attacking it, is non-poisonous, 
and can be used without not water. 
Moisten the hands with a little cold water, 
apply a small quantity of the paste to 
the stained skin, rub the hands together 
for a few minutes, and rinse with cold 
water. The preparation is a mixture of 
soft soap and hard tallow, melted to- 
gether over the fire and incorporated 
with a little emery powder, flint, glass, 
sand, quartz, pumice stone, etc., with 
a little essential oil to mask the smell of 
m soap. The mixture sets to a mass 
Uke Putty, but does not dry hard. The 
^proximate proportions of the ingre- 
™nts are: Soft soap, 30 per cent; tal- 
w ' 15 per cent; emery powder, 55 per 
j? an( l a, few drops of essential oil. 
s j", au ex tra detergent quality is de- 
be *A i j Unces 01 sodium carbonate may 
W > j ' an<1 tlle quantity of soap may 
e reduced. p ast e thus made will at- 

ta^ gtease ' etc -> more readily, but it h> 
a *jder on the skin. 

«naoving Inground Dirt.— 

ggg albumen 8 parts 

£? n c acid 1 pa rt 

^ycerme 32 parts 

^rf ume to suit. 

Hi 1 water to m^ 6 ' 50 P arts 
l^antit** lue ^°" c ' in a sufficient 
iy of water; mix the albumen and 



£ yC l™ fife a -ilk strain- 

the residue of^atlr flmda and add 
Every time the hands are washed A™ 
on a towel, and then moi^n 7if r 5 iT^ 
but thoroughly with * ^ iquii anf div 
on a 5o ft towel without rubbinf At 
night, on retiring, apply the m Je and 
wjpe slightly or just enough to take 11 
superfluous liquid; or, better still, sleeS 
m a pair of cotton gloves. P 

TOILET CREAMS: 

Almond Cold Creams. — A liquid al- 
mond cream may be made by the ap- 
pended formula. It has been known as 
milk of almond: 

I. — Sweet almonds.. . . 5 ounces 
White castile soap. 2 drachms 

White wax . 2 drachms 

Spermaceti 2 drachms 

Oil of bitter al- 
monds 10 minims 

Oil of bergamot. . . 20 minims 

Alcohol 6 fluidounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 

Beat the almonds in a smooth mortar 
until as much divided as their nature will 
admit; then gradually add water in very 
small quantities, continuing, the beating 
until a smooth paste is obtained; add to 
this, gradually, one pint of water, stirring 
well all the time. Strain the resulting 
emulsion without pressure through a 
cotton cloth previously well washed to 
remove all foreign matter. If new, the 
cloth will contain starch, etc., wnicn 
must be removed. Add, .through the 
strainer, enough water to bring the meas- 
ure of the strained liquid to 1 pint. 
While this operation is going on let me 
soap be shaded into thm ; and 

melted, with enough water ^ covers- 
over a very gentle fire or on a water batn. 
° W h r en fluhildd the ^ : ™d -P^g 
in large pieces, so as to allow them 1 

slowly and ^J h *%Sy Wben 
with the soap. Stir f ,° p CC s a 0 E ip y fixture in 
all is melted $™**$ 0 Xfte emulsion, 
a mortar, run into it slow iy ^ 
blending the two all * be ^ U not to a dd 
pestle. Care must be taken n incor _ 

the emulsion ^ly .add the 

porated with the soap^ been 
alcohol in which the pertm m&n _ 

previously dissolved, in the 
ner, using great care. HeSOID e to 

This preparation v J d it w 

make and rather ^f^ose than 
perhaps no better^ or . P g 
glycerine. The m r ^ freelv, 



best to dilute it largely with water. Such 
a lotion may be made by mixing 

Glycerine 1 part 

Rose water 9 parts 

Plain water may, of course, be used 
as the diluent, but a slightly perfumed 

S reparation is generally considered more 
esirable. The perfume may easily be 
obtained by dissolving a very small pro- 
portion of handkerchief "extract or 
some essential oil in the glycerine, and 
then mixing with plain water. 

II.— White wax Jounce 

Spermaceti 2$ ounces 

Oil of sweet al- 
monds... 2 J ounces 

Melt, remove from the fire, and add 
Rose water 1§ ounces 

Beat until creamy: not until cold. When 
the cream begins to thicken add a few 
drops of oil of rose. Only the finest 
almond oil should be used. Be careful 
in weighing the wax and spermaceti. 
These precautions will insure a good 
product. 

III. — White wax 4 ounces 

Spermaceti 3 ounces 

Sweet almond 

oil 6 fluidounces 

Glycerine 4 fluidounces 

Oil of rose gera- 
nium 1 fluidrachrn 

Tincture of ben- 
zoin 4 fkiidrachms 

Melt the wax and spermaceti, add 
the oil of sweet almonds, then beat in the 
glycerine, tincture of benzoin, and oil 
of rose geranium. When all are incor- 
porated to a smooth, creamy mass, pour 
into molds. 

IV. — Sweet almonds, 

blanched 5 ounces 

Castile soap, 

white 120 grains 

White wax 120 grains 

Spermaceti 120 grains 

Oil of bitter al- 
monds 10 drops 

Oil of bergamot 20 drops 

Alcohol G fluidounces 

Water, sufficient. 
Make an emulsion of the almonds 
with water so as to obtain 10 fluidounces 

v,- P u 0< 3 Uct ' strainin g through cotton 
which has previously been washed to 
remove starch. Dissolve the soap with 
tne aid oi heat in the necessarv amount 
of water to form a liquid, add the wax 
and spermaceti, continue the heat until 
the latter is melted, transfer to a mortar, 
and incorporate the almond emulsion 



slowly with constant stirring until n r 
been added and a smooth C r ^ 
been formed. Finally, add the two v.i 3 
tile oils. w ° v °ia. 

V. — Melt, at moderate heat, 

white™, B r 0 r& 

Spermaceti 1,001) parts 

Then stir in 

j i ... By weight 

> Almond oil 600 parts 

Rose water 260 f, artg 

And scent with 

By weight. 

Bergamot oil. .. . 10 parts 
Geranium oil. .. . 5 parts 
Lemon oil 4 parts 

ttt n , -i By weight. 

VI. — Castor oil 500 parts 

White wax loo parts 

Almond oil 150 parts 

Melt at moderate heat and scent with 
By weight. 

Geranium oil 6 parts 

Lemon oil b parts 

Bergamot oil ... . 10 parts 
Bj weight. 

VII. — Almond oil 400 parts 

Lanoline 200 parts 

White wax 60 parts 

Spermaceti 00 parts 

Rose water 300 parts 

By weight. 

VIII. — White wax 6 parts 

Tallow, freshly 

tried out. ..... 4 parts 

Spermaceti 2 parts 

Oil of sweet al- 
monds 6 parts 

Melt together and while still hot add, 
with constant stirring, 1 part of sodium 
carbonate dissolved "in 79 parts of hot 
water. Stir until cold. Perfume to tne 
taste. 

IX. — Ointment of 

rose water. . . 1 ounce 
Oil of sweet ' . . 

almonds.... 1 jounce 

Glycerine 1 fluidounce 

Boric acid 100 grams 

Solution of . j 

soda sinuidoimcea 

Mucilage of flukIoun ce S 
quince seed . 4 uu 

Water enough to flllidoU tices 
make 4U ^nds, 

Oil of rose, oil of bitter alijj* 
of each sufficient to perfum ^ 

Heat the ointment, oil, and so i" utit£l 
soda together, stirring cc ^ ta "Lt U re i fl 
an emulsion or saponaceous mi- 



COSMETICS 



i Then warm together the glyc- 
^ AA and mucilage and about 30 
erinf> aC "£ of wat er; mix with the emul- 
fl" id0U S until cold, and add the re- 
gion. Sl 11 f tiie wa ter. Lastly, add the 

volatile oils. 0 j n tment used should 

Ko5 cream" of the United States 
Pharmacopoeia, 
v -Spermaceti... . 2 ounces 
J White wax...- 2 ounces 
Sweet almond 

0 j| 14 fluidounces 

Water' distilled 7 fluidounces 

Borax, powder 60 grams 

Coumarin i g rain 

Oil of bergamot 24 drops 

Oil of rose 6 drops 

Oil of bitter 

almonds .... 8 drops 
Tincture of am- 
bergris 5 drops 

Melt the spermaceti and was, add the 
sweet almond oil, incorporate the water 
in which the borax has previously been 
dissolved, and finally add the oils of ber- 
gamot, rose, and bitter almond. 

XI. -Honey 2 a v. ounces 

Castile soap, 
white powder 1 a v. ounce 

Oil sweet al- 
monds. . . . . . 26 fluidounces 

Oil bitter al- 
monds 1 fluidrachm 

Oil bergamot. . £ fluidrachm 

Oil cloves .... 15 drops 

Peru balsam.. . 1 fluidrachm 

Liquor potassa. 

Solution carmine, of each suffi- 
cient. 

Mix the honey with the soap in a mor- 
kr, and add enough liquor potassa 
(about 1 fluidrachm) to produce a nice 
cream. Mix the. volatile oils and balsam 
jntn the sweet almond oil, mix this with 
hie cream, and continue the trituration 
Ijnhl thoroughly mixed. Finally add, 
? desired, enough carmine solution to 
ln *part a rose tint. 

XII. —White wax 800 parts 

Spermaceti 800 parts 

Sweet almond 

oil 5,600 parts 

•Distilled water. . 2,800 parts 

Borax SO parts 

Bergamot oil . . . 20 parts 

Attar of rose 5 parts 

Coumarin 0.1 part 

Arm?* 1 r° r eacl1 Pound of the cream 5 
, of etheric oil of bitter almonds 
<w ;„ ,P S tincture of ambra. Proceed 
in making cold cream. 



The following also makes a fine cream: 
XIII.— Spermaceti 3 parts 

J? hite w ax ..... » £ arts 

Oil of almonds, 

fresh 12 p ar ts 

Rose water, double 1 part 

Glycerine, pure ... 1 par t 
Melt on a water bath the spermaceti 
and wax, add the oil (which should be 
fresh), and pour the whole into a slightly 
warmed mortar, under constant and lively 
stirring, to prevent granulation. Con 
tinue the trituration until the mass ha 
a white, creamy appearance, and i 
about the consistence of butter at ordi 
nary temperature. Add, little by littl 
under constant stirring, the orange 
flower water and glycerine mixed, &- 
finally the perfume as before. Co 
tinue the stirring for 15 or 20 minute 
then immediately put into containers, 

Chappine Cream. — 

Quince seed 2 drach 

Glycerine 1$ ounces 

Water l\ ounces 

Lead acetate. ... 10 grains 

Flavoring, sufficient. 
Macerate the quince seed in water, 
strain, add the glycerine and lead ace- 
tate, previously dissolved m sufficient 
water; flavor with jockey club or orange 
essence. 

Cucumber Creams. — 

I.— White wax 3 ounces 

Spermaceti 3 ounces 

Benzoinatedlard.. .. Bounces 

Cucumbers 3 ounces 

Melt together the wax, spermaceti, and 
lard and infuse in the liquid the cucum- 
bers' previously grated Allow to coo 
stirring well; let ^*?..*^F%3L 
strain and again stir the cream 

cold. 

IL-Bensoinatedlard.... bounces 

Suet. v * * 10 ounces 

Cucumber juice. . • ■- ^ ' [ eam . 
Proceed as in making cold cream 

Glycerine Creams.— 
I.-Oil of sweet al- ^ 

moncts ig arts 

White wax g5 ts 

suitable perfume. 

and glycerine ggeUie J ^ me 
the mass cools down a. & crearQy 

sufficient quantity to m 
mass. 



H, — Quince seed. ..... . 1 

Ti/\rir> acid 16 




COSMETICS 



ounce 
grains 
1 ounce 
] G ounces 



Boric 
Starch 

Glycerine. . , 

Carbolic acid SO minims 

Alcohol 12 ounces 

Oil of lavender 30 minims 

Oil of rose 10 drops 

Extract of white rose 1 ounce 
Water enough to make 64 ounces 
Dissolve the boric acid in a quart of 
water and in this solution macerate the 

Suince seed for 3 hours; then strain, 
[eat together the starch and the glycer- 
ine until the starch granules are broken, 
and mix with this the carbolic acid. 
Dissolve the oils and the extract of rose 
in the alcohol, and add to the quince- 
seed mucilage; then mix all together, 
strain, and add water enough to make 
the product weigh 04 ounces. 

III. — Glycerine 1 ounce 

Borax 2 drachms 

Boracic acid 1 drachm 

Oil rose geranium . . 30 drops 
Oil bitter almond. . . 15 drops 

Milk 1 gallon 

Heat the milk until it curdles and 
allow it to stand 12 hours. Strain it 
through cheese cloth and allow it to 
stand again for 12 hours. Mix in the 
salts and glycerine and triturate in a 
mortar, finally adding the odors and 
coloring if wanted. The curdled milk 
must be entirely free from water to avoid 
separation. If the milk will not curdle 
fast enough the addition of 1 ounce of 
water ammonia to a gallon will hasten if\ 
lake a gallon of milk, add 1 ounce am- 
monia water, heat (not boil), allow to 
stand 24 hours, and no trouble will be 
found in forming a good base for the 
cream. 

IV.— This is offered as a substitute 

U.H°^ Umb 7 r ream . for toilct "ses. 
iVlelt la parts, by weight, of gelatin in 
fiot water containing 15 parts, by weight, 
of boracic acid as well as 150 parts 
by weight, of glycerine; the total amount 
ol water used should not exceed 300 
Snot WGlg U may bc P erfu ^d 
Lanolin Creams. — 

Anhydrous lanolin. 650 parts 
Peach-kerne] oil... 200 parts 

Water 150 parts 

lerfume with about 15 droos of 
mnone or 20 drops of synthetiTyllng- 

"'^Oliveoil t? P arta 

p" a? " ■: 15 Parts 

1 arafhne ointment. . 10 parts 



Aqua napha;.. . , 0 

Distilled water '"' \ , part s 

Glycerine ' I patt 3 

Boric acid. ..".*"*" ± P^h 

Borax 4 pu.n a 

Geranium' oili 'sufficient^ 8 
Extract, triple, of 3 

quantity sufficient. ^^S. 
III.— Anhydrous lanolin Run a , 

Almond oil... ' Son t ach ^ 
Water.... " fJJ ^chms 

Oilofylang-viang: 5^ 
Preparations which have been 
duced years ago for the care of the ^ 
and complexion are the glycerin* „ f- m 
which have the advantage I? 
that they go further, but pri Tt 
drawback of not being so quickly k* 
s or bed by the ski n. Tfi ese dpoS b " 
filled either into glasses 
I he latter way is preferable and is rn 0r ' 
and more adopted, owing to the comm. 
lence of handling. 

A good recipe for such a gelee is the 
toll owing: 

Moisten white tragacanth powder 50 
parts, with glycerine, 200 parts, and spirit 
ot wine, 100 parts, and shake with a suit- 
| able amount of perfume; then quickly 
mix and shake with warm distilled water, 
1 650 parts. 

_ A transparent slime will form imme- 
diately which can be drawn off at once. 

Mucilage Creams. — 

I. — Starch 30 parts 

Carrageen mucilage. 480 parts 

Boric acid 15 parts 

Glycerine 240 parts 

Cologne water 240 parts 

Boil the starch in the carrageen muci- 
lage, add the boric acid and the glycer- 
ine. Let cool, and add the cologne 
water. 

II. — Linseed mucilage. . . 240 parts 

Boric acid 2 parts 

Salicylic acid 1.3 parts 

Glycerine CO parts 

Cologne water 120 parts 

Rose water 120 p^ rts ' 

Instead of the cologne water any ex- 
tracts may be used. Lilac and ylaag- 
ylang are recommended. 

Witch-Hazel Creams.— 

L— Quince seed 90 grains 

Boric acid 8 grains 

Glycerine 4 fluidounces 

Alcohol. ........ (3 fliiidounees 

Carbolic acid 6 clracbms 

Cologne water .... 4 Uuidounces 
Oil lavender flow- 
ers 40 drops 




COSMETICS 



239 



the 



rlvcen'te starch ... 4av. ounces 
tv tilled witch-hazel extract enough 
V Z 1 iake 32 fluidounces 
. i ve the boric acid in 16 ounces of 
D ,s ^ I ] iaze l extract, maceraLe the 
.Sd in the solution for 8 hours, 



1 ui " ce ^d the glycerine, carbolic acid, 
str r;ivTerite! M miK well Mix the 
a " i rolo'me water, lavender oil, i 
^corporate with the preyi 



mix wen. iYxi.it me 
?ater, lavender oil, and 
I M orate with the previous 

KS to bring to the measure of 32 
juidounces. 

ft ^Quince seed J ounces 

1L Hot water 16 ounces 

Glycerine 32 Alices . 

Witch-hazel water.. 128 ounces 

Boric acid 6 ounces 

Rose extract bounces 

Violet extract 1^ ounce 

Macerate the quince seed in the hot 
water add the glycerine and witch-hazel, 
in which the boric acid has been pre- 
viously dissolved; let the mixture stand 
for 2 days, stirring occasionally; strain 
and add the perfume. 
Skin Cream for Collapsible Tubes. — 

I— White vaseline 6 ounces 

White wax 1 

Spermaceti 5 

Subchloride bismuth 6 

Attar of rose 6 

Oil of bitter almonds 1 
Rectified spirit ...... i ounce 

Melt the vaseline, wax, and sperma- 
ceti together, and while cooling incor- 
porate the subchloride of bismuth (in 
warm mortar), Dissolve the oils in the 
alcohol, and add to the fatty mixture, 
stirring all until uniform and cold. In 
cold -weather the quantities of wax and 
spermaceti may be reduced. 

II- — Lanolin 1 

Almond oil 1 

Oleate of zinc (pow- 
der) , . 3 drachms 

Extract of white rose \\ drachms 

Glycerine 2 drachms 

Rose water 2 drachms 

5 ace Cream Without Grease.— 

Quince seed 10 parts 

goiluig water 1,000 parts 

» or ax 



ounce 

drachma 

drachms 

minims 

minim 



ounce 
ounce 



Boric acid 



parts 
» parts 

glycerine 100 parts 

Alcohol, 94 per cent . 125 parts 
A «ar of rose, quantity sufficient to 
perfume. 

*he £ C r ate tbe ^ince seed in half of 
tion« * K w atcr, with frequent agita- 
' tor 2 hours and 30 minutes, then 



ounces 
ounces 
ounces 
gallons 
drachm 



strain off. I n the residue of the boilW 
water dissolve the borax and boric aoif 
add the glycerine and the pff* 

'a M r i;»r K Ve , d 4 n lhe alcohol Now 
add little by little, the coUte of quinJe 
seed under constant agitation ^EiS 
should be Kept up for 5 minutes af ter 
the last portion of the colate is added. 
TOILET MILKS: 
Cucumber Milk. — 

Simple cerate S pounds 

rowdered borax Hi ounces 

Powdered castile soap 10 ounces 

Glycerine 

Alcohol 24 

Cucumber juice 32 

Water to 5 

Ionone 1 

Jasmine \ drachm 

Neroli | drachm 

Rhodinol 15 minims 

To the melted cerate in a hot wate: 
bath add the soap and stir well, keepin 
up the heat until perfectly mixed. Ad' 
8 ounces of borax to 1 gallon of boilin 
water, and pour gradually into the h 
melted soap and cerate; add the t 
mainder of the borax and hot water, 
the heated juice and glycerine, an 
lastly the alcohol. Shake well _whi 
cooling, set aside for 48 hours, and siph 
off any water that may separate. Sha 
well, and repeat after standing again 
necessary; then perfume 

Cucumber Juice.— It is well to ma 
a large quantity, as it keeps indefinite] 
Washed unpccled cucumbers are grat 
and pressed: the juice is heated, skimm 
and boiled for 5 minutes, then cool 
and filtered. Add 1 part of alcohol 
2 parts of juice, let stand for 12 hours 
more, and filter until clear. 



Glycerine Milk.— 

V-i • a 1.150 parts 

Glycerine. . *>' n 

Starch, powdered.. ^0 parg 
Distilled water....- 400 parts 
Tincture of benzoin «0 l»™ 

glycerine, then P»* the ^ tim 
steam bath ^d heat, under ^ 

geneous. 

Lanolin Toilet Milk-- 
White castile soap, 

22 grains 

powdered ' j ounce 

12 drachm* 



Lanolin - 

Tincture benzoin . ■ 
Water, enough. 



S40 



COSMETICS 



Dissolve the soap in 2 fluidounces of 
warm water, also mix the lanolin with 
2 fluidounces of warm water; then in- 
corporate the two with each other, 
finally adding the tincture. The latter 
may be replaced by 90 grains of pow- 
dered borax. 

Jasmine Milk- — To 25 parts of water 
add gradually, with constant stirring, 
1 part of zinc white, 2 quarts of grain 
spirit, and 0.15 to 0.25 part of glycerine; 
finally stir in 0.07 to 0.10 part of jasmine 
essence. Filter the mixture and fill into 
glass bottles. For use as a cosmetic, 
rub on the raspberry paste on retiring at 
night, and in the morning use the jas- 
mine milk to remove the paste from the 
skin. The two work together in then- 
effect. 

SUNBURN AND FRECKLE REME- 
DIES. 

L — Apply over the affected skin a 
solution of corrosive sublimate, 1 in 500, 
or, if the patient can stand it, 1 in 300, 
morning and evening, and for the night 
apply emplastrum hydrargyri com- 
pos i turn to the spots. In the morning 
remove the plaster and all remnants of 
it by rubbing fresh butter or cold cream 
over the spots. 

For redness of the skin apply each 
other day zinc oxide ointment or oint- 
ment of bismuth subnitrate. 

II- — Besnier recommends removal of 
the mercurial ointment with green soap, 
and the use, at night, of an ointment 
composed of vaseline and Vigo's plaster 
(emplastrum hydrargyri compositum), 
m equal parts. In the morning wash off 
■with soap and warm water, and apply 
the following: 

Vaseline, white SO parts 

Bismuth carbonate. . . 5 parts 

Kaolin 5 parts 

Mix, and make an ointment. 

IIL—Leloir has found the following 
of service. Clean the affected part with 
green soap or with alcohol, and then ap- 
ply several coats of the following 



Acid chrysophanic 
Chloroform. . , . . , 



15 parts 

■ 100 parts 

™- Apply with a camel Vhair pencil. 

When the application dries thoroughly, 
go over it with a layer of traumaticine! 

be repeat^' ^ the P r ° CeSS should 
disolw^ 611 the sWn is onl y sightly 



Acid chrysophanic, 

from i t _ j. 

Acid salicylic. ... i in 0 Parts 

Collodion. 

V. -Wben there is need forT^ 
complicated treatment, the follow*? ° T - e 
used: 1D § is 

(a) Corrosive sublimate i _ . 
Orange- flower 

water 7 tr, n fc . 

Acid, hydrochloric ' P " ts 

^ parts 

(6) Bitter almonds 4,500 parts 

Glycerine. 2,500 parts 

Orange- flower 

water 25,000 parts 

Rub up to an emulsion in a porcelain 
capsule. Filter and add, drop by dron 
and under constant stirring, 5 grams of 
tincture of benzoin. Finally m i x t ^ t 
two solutions, adding the second to the 
first. 

This preparation is applied with a 
sponge, on retiring, to the affected places, 
and allowed to dry on. 

VI. — According to Broeq the follow- 
ing should be penciled over the affected 
spots: 

Fresh pure milk 50 parts 

Glycerine . . 30 parts 

Acid, hydrochloric, 

concentrated 5 parts 

Ammonium chlorate. S parts 

VII. — Other external remedies that 
may be used are lactic acid diluted with 
3 volumes of water, applied with a glass 
rod; dilute nitric acid, and, finally, per- 
oxide of hydrogen, which last is a very 
powerful agent. . Should it cause too 
much inflammation, the latter may be 
assuaged by using an ointment of zinc 
oxide or bismuth subnitrate— or one may 
use the following: 

Kaolin . , . 4 parts 

Vaseline 10 parts 

Glycerine 4 parts 

Magnesium carbonate 2 parts 

Zinc oxide - 2 parts 

Freckle Remedies. — 

I. — Poppy oil 1 P aT f 

Lead acetate 2 parts 

Tincture benzoin. . , . 1 P ar J 
Tincture quillaia. ... ^ P arts 
Spirit nitrous ether. . . 1 P tlTl . 

Rose water ^ P arts 

Saponify the oil with the lead a . c f ta the ' 
add the rose water, and follow wit 
tinctures. 

IL-Chloral hydrate J ^Jj" 

Carbolic acid 1 draC * 



COSMETICS 



Tincture iodine 60 drops 

gycerine 1 ounce 

„ r - and dissolve. Apply with a 
JsFfrhair pencil at night. 
^tt pistilled vinegar.. . 600 parts 
™ Lemons, cut m 

small pieces 135 parts 

Alcohol, 85 per 

cent S8 parts 

Lavender oil gS parts 

Water aa P arts 

Citron oil 6 parts 

This mixture is allowed to stand for 8 
0T i days in the sun and filtered. , Coat, 
£ means of a sponge bef ore retiring, the 
places of the skin where the freckles are 
and allow to dry. 

Freckles and Liver Spots.— Modern 
dermatological methods of treating 
freckles and liver spots are based partly 
on remedies that cause desquamation 
and those that depigmentate (or de- 
stroy or neutralize pigmentation). Both 
methods may be distinguished in respect 
to their effects and mode of using into 
the following: The active ingredients of 
the desquamative pastes are reductives 
which promote the formation of epithe- 
lium and hence expedite desquamation. 

There are many such methods, and 
especially to be mentioned is that of 
Unna, who uses resorcin for the purpose. 
Lassar makes use of a paste of naphthol 
and sulphur, 

Sunburn Remedies. — 

I.— Zinc sulphocarbo- 

late 1 part 

Glycerine 20 parts 

Rose water 70 parts 

Alcohol, DO per 

cent 8 parts 

Cologne water. .. . 1 part 
Spirit of camphor. 1 part 

H.— Borax , 4 parts 

Potassium chlorate 2 parts 

Glycerine 10 parts 

Alcohol 4 parts 

Rose water to make 90 parts 

^~~£itric acid 2 drachms 

ferrous sulphate 

(cryst.) .... 18 grains 

^amphor 2 grains 

ly er " nower water 3 nuidounces 

'"""Potassium carbon- 

« Jje S parts 

oodvurn chloride . . 2 parts 
r a n g e - flower 

Plater 15 parts 

ttose water 65 parts 



V. — Boroglycerine, 



50 




parts 

drachm 
drachm 



percent j 

Ointment of ' rose 
water g 

VI.— Sodium bicarbon- 
ate j 

Ointment of ' rose 
Water 7 

VII. — Bicarbonate of soda 2 
Powdered borax. . . 1 
Compound tincture 

of lavender ij drachma 

Glycerine 1 ounce 

Rose water 4 ounces 

Dissolve the soda and borax in the 
glycerine and rose water, and add the 
tincture. Apply with a small piece of 
sponge 2 or 3 times a day. Then gently 
dry by dabbing with a soft towel. 

VIII. — Quince seeds 2 drachms 

Distilled water. . .. 10 ounces 

Glycerine 2 ounces 

Alcohol, 94 per 

cent 1 ounce 

Rose water 2 ounces 

Boil the seeds in the water for 10 min« 
utcs, then strain off the liquid, and when 
cold add to it the glycerine, alcohol, and 
rose water. 

IX.— White soft soap. . . %\ drachms 

Glycerine H drachms 

Almond oil.. H drachms 

Well mix the glycerine and soap in a 
mortar, and very gradually add the oil, 
stirring constantly until perfectly mixed. 

X.— Subnitrate of bis- 

muth 1£ draeh* 

Powdered French 

chalk 30 grams 

Glycerine « drachms 

Rose water H ounces 

Mix the powders, and rub down care- 

Rose water...- 5 ounces 
Essential oil of al- 

monds , . „ j 

Blanch the almonds, and then dry and 

beat them «P.» M r'f f 3 B cream 
paste; then, mix m ^^""add the 
Ld essenW o£ Gj^/eaeh addi- 
jr o S ^l&tr l ai" n .Lou 8 h mushn 
Tan and Freckle Lotion.— 
f o^ssium ! iodide, iodine, glyeeri 
"SiS^flSV-*" iodide in 



$42 



COSMETICS 



small quantity of the infusion and a 
drachm of the glycerine; with this fluid 
moisten the iodine in a glass of water 
and rub it down, gradually adding more 
liquid, until complete solution has been 
obtained; then stir in the remainder of 
the ingredients, and bottle the mixture. 
Solution B: 

Sodium thiosulphate and rose water. 
With a small camel's-hair pencil or piece 
of fine sponge apply a little of solution A 
to the tanned or freckled surface, until a 
slight or tolerably uniform brownish 
yellow skin has been produced. At the 
expiration of 15 or 20 minutes moisten 
a piece of cambric, lint, or soft rag with 
B and lay it upon the affected part, re- 
moving, squeezing away the liquid, 
soaking it afresh, and again applying; 
until the iodine stain has disappeared. 
Repeat the process thrice daily,_ but 
diminish the frequency of application if 
tenderness be produced. 

A Cure for Tan, — Bichloride of mer- 
cury, in coarse powder, 10 grains; dis- 
tilled water, 1 pint. Agitate the two 
together until a complete solution is 
obtained. Add £ ounce of glycerine. 
Apply with a small sponge as often as 
agreeable. This is not strong enough to 
blister and skin the face in average cases. 
It may be increased or reduced in strength 
by adding to or taking from the amount 
of bichloride of mercury. Do not for- 
get that this last ingredient is a powerful 
poison and should be kept out of the 
reach of children and ignorant persons. 

Improved Carron Oil. — Superior to 
the old and more suitable. A desirable 
preparation for burns, tan, freckle, sun- 
burn, scalds, abrasions, or lung affec- 
tions. Does not oxidize so quickly or 
dry up so rapidly and less liable to ran- 
cidity. 

Linseed oil g ounces 

Lime water 2 ounces 

Para Sane, liquid 1 ounce 

Mix the linseed oil and water, and add 
tne paraffine. Shake well before using. 

LIVER SPOTS. 

L — Corrosive subli- 

wri m _ ate 1 part 

White sugar igo parts 

White of egg 34 parts 

Ljemon juice 275 parts 

Water to make.. . . £,500 parts 

m^iJr* s + u }> lim ate, sugar, and albu- 
iuice ^ mat t ly ' then add th e lemon 
and after £^ mss ? l ™> shake well, 
ana atter standing an hour, filter. Ap- 



ply in the morning after the U3ua i ... 
tions, and let dry on the face. lu " 

II. — Bichloride of mercury in p 
powder, 8 grains; witch-hazel 2 (> , arse 
rose water, 2 ounces. ' OUll ees' : 

Agitate until a solution is ori t„; , 
Mop over the affected parts. 
of the way of ignorant persons and rS* 
dren. VU1J - 

TOILET POWDERS: 

Almond Powders for the Toilet — 

6,000 parts 



3,000 parts 



Almond meal 
Bran meal . 

boap powder 600 parts 

Bergamot oil 50 parts 

Lemon oil 16 parta 

C T lov< r. 01 lf 13 parts 

Nerolioil 6 parts 

II. — Almond meal 7,000 parts 

Bran meal 2,000 parts 

Violet root 900 parts 

Borax 350 pans 

Bitter almond oil . 18 parts 
Palrnarosa oil.. .. 36 parts 
Bergamot oil . 10 parts 

III. — Almond meal .... 3,000 parts 

Bran meal 3,000 parts 

Wheat flour 3,000 parts 

Sand 100 parts 

Lemon oil 40 parts 

Bitter almond oil . 10 parts 

Bath Powder. — 

Borax . 4 ounces 

Salicylic acid 1 drachm 

Extract of cassia 1 drachm 

Extract of jasmine. . . 1 drachm 

Oil of lavender 20 minims 

Rub the oil and extracts with the boras 
and salicylic acid until the alcohol has 
evaporated. Use a heaping teaspooniul 
to the body bath. 

Brunette or Rachelle. — 

Base ■ - • 9 

Powdered Florentine 



pounds 
pound 



1<20 grains 



orris . J 

Perfume the same. 
Powdered yellow 

ocher (av.) 3 ounces 

Carmine No. 40 60 grams 

Rub down the carmine and ocher m = 
alcohol in a mortar, and spread on g 
to dry; then mix and sift. 



Violet Pordre de Riz.— 
I.— Cornstarch I 



da 



1 po 



1 pounc 



Rice flour 

Powdered talc n 

Powdered orris root.. 1 P unce s 

Extract of cassia * ounce 

Extract of jasmine. - - 10 



COSMETICS 



$48 



Cheaper- 

Potato starch 8 pounds 

PoWeredtaic J pound 

lowered orris J pound 

j^tract of cassia 3 



ounces 



powder 

"Cornstarch. 
precipitated chalk 

powdered talc ^ 

Oil of neroli J 

Oil ofcedrat i 

Oil of orange. z 

Extract of jasmine... 1 



Barber's Powder.^ 

^^tarch. ......... J pounds 

3 pounds 
2 pounds 
drachm 
drachm 
drachms 
ounce 



Rose poudrede Riz.— 

T -Cornstarch J pounds 

L Powdered talc 1 pound 

n;i nfrose 1} drachm 



Oil of rose. 
Extract of jasmine, 



rns 

drachms 

TT —Potato starch 9 pounds 

Powdered talc 1 pound 

Oil of rose I drachm 

Extract of jasmine. . . | ounce 

Ideal Cosmetic Powder. —The follow- 
ing combines the best qualities that a 
er for the skin should have: 

Zinc, white 50 parts 

Calcium carbonate, 

precipitated 300 parts 

Steatite, best white . . 50 parts 
Starch, wheat, or rice 100 parts 
Extract white rose, 

triple 3 parts 

Extract jasmine, tri- 
ple 3 parts 

Extract orange flow- 
er, triple 3 parts 

Extract of cassia, tri- 

.ple 3 parts 

Tincture of myrrh. . 1 part 
Powder the solids and mix thoroughly 
by repeated siftings. 

Flesh Pace Powder. 

§ as e 9 pounds 

tWdored Florentine 

o^is 1 pound 

U.rmineNo.40 250 grains 

^xtract of jasmine . . 100 minims 

of neroli 20 minims 

r}}f m 5 grains 

Wk- 1 musk 30 grains 

fV,, 1 ^ h ?' liotrQ P'u. . . SO grains 
1 grain 



Coumarin . 

kaS ' t ! le earmine with a portion of the 
P ef fun7 ?7 cori01 la a mortar, mixing the 
mortar ? samc ^ a y in another large 
sift all an -i addin g tne or " s - and 
on rubti^g s P ec ^ s °^ carmine disappear 



9 pounds 



White Face Powder.— 

Base 

Powdered Florentine 
orris | 

Perfume the same. ' Mix and"™ 
Talcum Powders. -Talc, when used 
as a todet powder should be in a state of 
very fine division. Antiseptics are some- 
times added in small proportion, but 
these are presumably of little or no value 
in the quantity allowable, and may 
prove irritating. For general use, at all 
events, the talcum alone is the best and 
the safest. As a perfume, rose oil may 
be employed, but on account of its cost, 
rose geranium oil is probably more 
frequently used. A satisfactory propor- 
tion is i drachm of the oil to a pound 
of the powder. In order that the per- 
fume may be thoroughly disseminate 
throughout the powder, the oil shoul 
be triturated first with a small portion 
it; this should then be further triturate 
with a larger portion, and, if the quan- 
tity operated on be large, the final mix 
ing may be effected by sifting. Man 
odors besides that of rose would be suit 
able for a toilet powder. Ylang-ylan 
would doubtless prove very attractive 
but expensive. 

The following formulas for other va 
rieties of the powder may prove useful: 

Violet Talc — 

I. — Powdered talc 14 ounces 



2 ounces 
^ ounce 
| ounce 



S pounds 



Powdered orris root 
Extract of cassia. . . 
Extract of jasmine . 

Rose Talc — 
II.— Powdered talc. 

Oil of rose * drachm 

Extract of jasmine . 4 ounces 

Tea-Rose Talc 

III.— Powdered talc e J 

Oil of rose 

Oil of wintergreen . 
Extract of jasmine. 
Borated Apple Blossom 
IV.— Powdered talc 



50 
4 



pounds 
drops 
drops 
ounces 



22 pou 



nds 



Magnesium carbon- ^ 
ate 4 r 1 



Powdered boric acid 1 P° u 



nd 



Mix. 



Carnation pi 



ink blos- 



ounces 
drachm 
dd: 



som (Schimmel's) 
Extract of trefie 

Neroli ^ drachm 

Vanillin " g ounces 

Alcohol to •• 

Sufficient for 25 pounds 



V. Talcum 8 ( ounces 

Starch 8 ounces 

Oil of neroli 10 drops 

Oil of ylang-ylang. 5 drops 

VI, — Talcum 12 ounces 

Starch 4 ounces 

Orris root 2 ounces 

Oil of bergamot 12 drops 

VII- — Talcum 14 ounces 

Starch 2 ounces 

Lanolin £ ounce 

Oil of rose 10 drops 

Oilofncroli 5 drops 

TOILET VINEGARS : 

Pumilio Toilet Vinegar. — 

Alcohol, SO per cent 1,600 parts 
Vinegar, 10 per 

cent 840 parts 

Oil of pinu spumillo 44 parts 
Oil of la vender ..... 4 parts 

Oil of lemon Mparts 

Oil of bergamot. .... 2 parts 
Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, add 
the vinegar, let stand for a week and filter. 

Vinaigre Rouge. — 

Acetic acid 24 parts 

Alum 3 parts 

Peru balsam 1 part 

Carmine, No. 40. . . 12 parts 
Ammonia water ... 6 parts 
Hose water, dis- 

' tilled 575 parts 

Alcohol 1,250 parts 

Dissolve the balsam of Peru in the 
alcohol, and the alum in the rose water. 
Mix the two solutions, add the acetic 
acid, and let stand overnight. Dis- 
solve the carmine in the ammonia water 
and add to mixture. Shake thoroughly, 
let stand for a few minutes, then decant, 

"Beauty Water."— 

Fresh egg albumen . . 600 parts 

Glycerine , . m parts 

50% Alcohol 25 parts 

Lemon oil 2 parts 

Lavender oil 2 parts 

Oil of thyme 2 parts 

Mis the ingredients well together. 
When first mixed the liquid becomes 
hoeculent, but after standing for 2 or 3 
days clears up— sometimes becomes 
perfectly clear, and may be decanted, 
it tonus a light, amber-colored liquid 
that remains clear for months. 
* a m *5 h 1 t » bef orc retiring, pour about a 
teaspoonful of the water in the palm of the 
nann, and rub it over the faee and neck, 

an l ng . d 7 0I \ In the morning, about 
an hour before the bath, repeat the oper- 



ation, also letting the li quid d 
skin. Ihe regular use of this or 
tion for 4 weeks will gi ve the <?V^ ara * 
extraordinary fineness, clearness aQ 
freshness. > a nd 

Rottmanner's Beauty Water —R 
says that this preparation consists ?, ] 
part of camphor, 5 parts of milk of I] 
phur, and 50 parts of rose water. 

Birch Waters. -Birch water, whirl, 
has many cosmetic applications eS n7 
cially as a hair wash, or an ingredient ; i 
hair washes, may be prepared as foll 0w ° 
I.— Alcohol, 96 per cent 3,500 parts 

Water 70 0 parts 

Potash soap 200 parts 

Glycerine 150 parts 

Oil of birch buds. . . 50 parts 
Essence of spring 

flowers 100 parts 

Chlorophyll, quantity sufficient to 
color. 

Mix the water with 700 parts of the 
alcohol, and in the mixture dissolve the 
soap. Add the essence of spring flowers 
and birch oil to the remainder of the 
alcohol, mix well, and to the mixture add, 
little by little, and with constant agitation, 
the soap mixture. Finally, add the glyc- 
erine, mix thoroughly, and set aside for 
8 days, filter and color the filtrate with 
chlorophyll, to which is added a little 
tincture of saffron. To use, add an 
equal volume of water to produce a 
lather. 

II. — Alcohol, 90 per 

cent 2,000 parts 

Water 500 parts 

Tincture of can- 

tharides 25 parts 

Salicylic acid 25 parts 

Glycerine 100 parts 

Oil of birch buds. 40 parts 

Bergamot oil 30 parts 

Geranium oil 5 parts 

Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, add 

the acid and tincture of canthanciej 

mix the water and glycerine and aau, 

and, finally, color as before. 

III.— Alcohol 30,000 parts 

Birch juice 3,000 par s 

Glycerine 1,000 par 

Bergamot oil.... 90 parts 

Vanillin Wr«J 

Geranium oil.... 50 parts 
Water 14,000 parts 



, * Ammonia Water.— Most prep- 
V 1 ? of this character consist of 
jrations e i y powdered ammonium 
either c0 or without the addition 

carbona . wa ter, or of a coarsely pow- 
ofa^xture, which slowly evolves the 
ie 7 ammonia, the whole being per- 
odor or * ^ c ^^ion of volatde oil, 
furoea D ^ ssenceS) or handkerchief ex- 
poin^ e Tlie f 0 Uowmg are typical for- 

^f^Moisten coarsely powdered am- 
mm carbonate, contained m a suit- 

n bottle with a mixture of ooneen- 
S£d tincture of orris root, 2A ounces; 

«matic spi"t of ammonia, 1 drachm; 
Set' extract, 3 drachms. 

It— Fill suitable bottles with coarsely 

ordered ammonium carbonate and add 
J, the salt as much of the following solu- 
tjoD as it will absorb: Oil of orris 5 
minims; oil of lavender flowers, 10 
minims; violet extract, 30 minims; 
stronger water of ammonia, 2 fluid- 
ounces. .... . , , 

HI.— The following is a formula for 
a liquid preparation: Extract violet, 8 
fliridrachms ; extract cassia, 8 fitiidrachms; 
spirit of rose, 4 fluidrachms; tincture of 
orris, 4 fluidrachms ; cologne spirit, 1 
pint ; spirit of ammonia, 1 ounce. Spirit 
of ionone may be used instead of extract 
of violet. 

Violet Witch-Hazel. — 

Spirit of ionone. \ drachm 

Rose water 6 ounces 

Distilled extract o f 

witch-hazel enough 

to make 1G ounces 




Cotton 

Reaching of cottow: 

»i*'5i Blea S hin S b y Steaming.— The 

PasWi *°L ^' as hed cotton goods are 
\^ through hydrochloric acid of 2° 
W w a I e tllem in nea PS during 1 
^Wit* * ' pass trough sodium hypo- 
l CoK ° f 103 Be. diluted with 10 times 

* ^i m fS,°? u' ater " Let the P ieces U , e 
eaustir >* j , huu r, wash, pass through 
tini es i ts a ^ e of 38° Be. diluted with 8 
a gaiu t i vol ame of water, steam, put 
*<aduW°.Vfyi sodium chloride, wash, 
^ f h ? h tly with hydrochloric acid, 
Mbesuffi • y * Should the whiteness 
m cieat, repeat the operations. 



fcmi* 0 .77 oLcainca during ] 

&oV« t ^^l 

calcium chloride. The bisulphite may 
also be replaced by calcium hyposul- 
phite, and instead of steaming, the 
fabric may be boiled for several hours 
with calcium sulphite. 

III.— Bleaching of Vegetable Fibers 
with Hydrogen Peroxide.— Pass the pieces 
through a solution containing caustic 
soda, soap, hydrogen peroxide, and burnt 
magnesia. The pieces are piled in heaps 
on carriages; the latter are shoved into 
the well-known apparatus of Mather & 
Piatt (kier), and the liquid is pumped 
on for 6 hours, at a pressure of f atmos- 
phere. Next wash, acidulate, wash and 
dry. The bleaching may also be done 
on an ordinary reeling vat. For 5 
pieces are needed about 1,000 parts, by 
weight, of water; 10 parts, by weight, of 
solid caustic soda; 1 part of burnt mag- 
nesia; 30 parts, by weight, of hydrogen 
peroxide. After 3-4 hours' boiling, 
wash, acidulate, wash and dry. The 
bleaching may also^ be performed bj 
passing through barium peroxide, ther 
through sulphuric acid or hydrochloric 
acid, and next through soda lye. It if 
practicable also to commence with th< 
latter and finally give a treatment witr. 
hydrogen peroxide. 

The whiteness obtained by the abovt 
process is handsomer than that produced 
by the old method with hypochlorites, 
and the fabric is weakened to a less ex- 
tent. 

TESTS FOR COTTON. 

L-Cotton, when freed from extrane- 
ous matter by boiling with P^MgJ 
afterwards with 

pUreC ;- llul ?o e the a U 0 S ^ > ft ut in 
according to the U. ». . solutlo n. 

copper ammonium s ™P£ ate and stat es 
that cotton is soluble in a a 
solution of copper ammopmm £ is 
The standard test -$utoon^. cop J pe r 
made by.*^"*, 1 * ggg^ w ^ er , 
sulphate m 160 parts or a rf &m- 

ftn f <*£^0$vSd ihe precipitate 
monia to the dissolved. The 

first formed is ntgV o ^ u 
product is then^Wtereu^ ^.^ 
made 



up 



to 300 parts 



246 



COTTON— COUGH MIXTURES 



water The concentrated solution is 
prepared by using a smaller quantity 
of distilled water. 

IX, — Schweitzer's reagent for textile 
fibers and cellulose is made by dissolving 
10 parts of copper sulphate in 100 parts 
of water and adding a solution of 5 parts 
of potassium hydrate in 50 parts of water; 
then wash the precipitate and dissolve m 
SO per cent ammonia until saturated. 
This solution dissolves cotton, linen, and 
silk, but not wool. The reagent is said 
to be especially useful in microscopy, as 
it rapidly dissolves cellulose, but has no 
action on iignin. 

III. — Jandricr's Test for Cotton in 
Woolen Fabrics.— Wash the sample of 
fabric and treat with sulphuric acid 
(20 Be.) for half an hour on the water 
bath. To 100 to 200 parts of this solu- 
tion add 1 part resorcin, and overlay on 
concentrated sulphuric acid free trom 
nitrous products. The heat developed 
is sufficient to give a color at the contact 
point of the liquids, but intensity of color 
may be increased by slightly heating. If 
the product resulting from treating the 
cotton is made up 1 in 1,000, resorcin 
will give an orange color; alphanaphlol 
a purple; gallic acid a green gradually 
becoming violet down in the acid; hydro- 
quinone or pyrogallol a brown; morphine 
or codeine, a lavender; thymol or menthol 
a pink. Cotton may be detected in 
colored goods, using boneblack to de- 
colorize the solution, if necessary. 

IV. — Overbeck*s test for cotton in 
woolen consists in soaking the fabric in 
an aqueous solution of alloxantine (1 in 
10), and after drying expose to ammonia 
vapor and rinse in water. Woolen ma- 
terial is colored crimson, cotton remains 
blue. 

. V— Liebermann's Test.— D y e the fab- 
ric for half an hour in fuchsine solution 
rendered light yellow by caustic soda 

solution and then washed with water 

silk is colored dark red; wool, light red- 
flax, pink; and cotton remains colorless.' 

To Distinguish Cotton from Linen.— 
lake a sample about an inch and a half 
square <rf the doth to be tested and 



plunge it into a tepid alcoholic solution 
of cyanine After the coloring matter 
fn L ! 6n ^^ed by the fiber, rinse it 

SLiTrin *!) d th T e , n . p . Jun ^ e into dilute s ui- 

whihT Lin alm ° St com P le teIy bleached, 
X „« 1 P T «*«ves the blue color al' 

Sun 'ed1r ged ' ^ th V am P lc be then 

™ y sjsss™. the blue wiu be 



Aromatic Cotton. — Arornaf 
produced as follows: Miv ^1° C °* to H is 



parts; pine-leaf oil, 



5 parts; spirit of wine (90 ^p' °^° V 
parts; and distribute evenly 



(90 p er 
-Venly c 

500 parts hy means of an atomi 2ep -^ 
cotton is left pressed together in r l e 
closed tin vessel for a few davs a &°tly 



lays. 

Cotton Decreasing. -Cotton w astP ■ 
a greasy condition, is placed i n an ■ n 
proof apparatus, where it i s sim u 
neously freed from grease, etc anrt 
pared for bleaching by the 'follo^ 
process, which is performed without !? 8 
oved from th* ,.-. th 
with 

„ N » y ^.v,„ming, ior me purp 0s - 

of vaporizing and expelling from £ 



waste being rem 
tus 
as 



the app ara . 



;:(!), treatment with a solvent^ 
benzine; (2) steaming, tor the ZJB 



cotton waste the solvent still remaining 
in it after as much as possible of this has 
been recovered by draining; (3) treatment 
with a mineral acid; (4) boiling with an 
alkali lye; (5) washing with water. 

COTTONSEED HULLS AS STOCK 
FOOD. 

Cottonseed hulls or other material 
containing fiber difficult of digestion are 
thoroughly mixed with about 5 per cent 
of their weight of hydrochloric acid (spe- 
cific gravity, 1.10), and heated in a 
closed vessel, provided with a stirrer, to 
a temperature of £12° to 300° F. The 
amount of* acid to be added depends on 
the material employed and on the dura- 
tion of the heating"^ By heating for 30 
minutes the above percentage of acid is 
required, but the quantity may be re- 
duced if the heating is prolonged. After 
heating, the substance is ground and ai 
the same time mixed with some basic 
substances such as sodium carbonate, 
chalk, cottonseed kernel meal, etc., to 
neutralize the acid. During the heating, 
the acid vapors coming from the mixture 
mav be led into a second quantity oi 
material contained in a separate vess , 
air being drawn through both vessels 
facilitate the removal of the acid vapor*. 
COUNTERFEIT COINS — TO 
TECT: 
A solution of — 

24 grains silver nitrate 
15 drops nitric acid 
1 fluidounce distilled water ^ 

Mix together thoroughly a T n f d n ^ P 0 (her 

then 



the coin with a glass rod.^ If ^ s 



metal is present in larger qu&nn i ^ 
in the standard U. S. alloy, a b[aL 
appears. 

COUGH MIXTURES F°* Forn iid 
CATTLE: See Veterinary 



COURT PLASTERS— CREAM 



^tr MIXTURES AND REMEDIES: 
C 0JJ Cold and Cough Mixtures. 



Court Plasters 

(See also Plasters.) 

Tinuid Court Plaster. J. If soluble 
ttnn is dissolved m acetone in the 

c^^ utl p ft^l ' bJ l ,,ro ^ ht • of 

fXriner to 35 or 40 parts, by volume 
If the latter, and half a part each of 
Li- nil and glycerine be added, a 
SJ;,Uc S La flexible film will 
form on the skin wherever it is applied. 
Tinlike ordinary collodion it will not be 
likely to dry and peel off. If tinted very 
slightly with alkanet and saffron it can 
be made to assume the color of the skm 
so that when applied it is scarcely ob- 
servable. A mixture of warm solution 
of sodium silicate and casein, about 9 
parts of the former to 1 part of the latter, 
gelatinizes and forms a sort of liquid 
court plaster. 

II, —In order to make liquid court plaster 
flexible, collodion, U. S. P., is the best 
liquid that can possibly be recommended. 
It may be made by weighing successively 
into a tarred bottle: 

Collodion 4 av. ounces 

Canada turpentine. . 95 grains 

Castor oil 57 grains 

before applying, the skin should be 
perfectly dry; each application or layer 
should be permitted to harden. Three 
w four coats are usually sufficient. 

\fI-~-Procure an ounce bottle and fill 
"\ hr «; fourths full of flexible collodion, 
Q hU U P wit -h ether. Apply to cuts, 
Hi*' ? tc -' and [t protects them and will 
leavi^ ° ff " y tlie etlier evaporates, 
etlj nR 11 *°o thick for use, have more 
thinp ? U v m to ^quefy it. It is a good 
cQ; 0 ^inthe house and in the tool 

C0 \r??|f ASES J ™ ) THEIR REM- 
Veterinary Formulas. 

c bee Pencils. 

Bl1Sg S For gra tning awd mar- 

lle^t. t 

^Hit e * P ar ts of water and 1 part of 
wax over a fire until the wax has 



completely dissolved Stir i n i „ l 
purified potash. When an intimate 
combination has taken place, allow £ 
cool and add a proportionate quantity 
of gum arable. With this mixtme the 
desired colors are ground thick enough 
so that they can be conveniently rolled 
into a pencil with chalk. The desired 
shades must be composed on the grind- 
mg slab as they are wanted, and must 
not be simply left in their natural tone 
Use, for instance, umber, Vandyke 
brown, and white lead for oak; umber 
alone would be too dark for walnut use. 
All the earth colors can be conveniently 
worked up. It is best to prepare S or 3 
crayons of each set, mixing the first a 
little lighter by the addition of -white lead 
and leaving the others a little darker. 
The pencils should be kept in a dry place 
and are more suitable for graining and 
marbling than brushes, since they can be 
used with either oil or water. 

CRAYONS FOR WRITING ON GLASS: 

See Etching, and Glass. 

Cream 

(See also Milk.) 

Whipped Cream. — There are many 
ways to whip cream. The following is 
very highly indorsed: Keep the cream 
on ice until ready to whip, Take % 
earthen vessels about 0 inches in diam- 
eter. Into 1 bowl put 1 pint of rich 
sweet cream, 2 teaspoonfuls powdered- 
sugar, and 5 drops of best vanilla ex- 
tract. Add the white of 1 egg and beat 
with large egg beater or use wwpping 
apparatus until 2 inches of froth has 
formed; skim off the froth into the other 
vessel and so proceed whipping and 
skimming until all the cream in the 
first vessel has been exhaus c d. Ihe 
whipped cream will stand up a I day ana 
should be let stand in the vessel on ice 

Special machines hav e been c onjtrwted 
for whi pping. cream but ma rtdj F^ngs 
prepare It with an ordinary egg 
Genuine whipped cream is no tmng 
than pure cream into wh eti air 
forced by the action ^ ^ 
paratus manufactured ror £ d in 
care must, however, be ew ^ 
order that butter is not ^ this 
stead of whipped cream- 




must not ^.^S ^t be oh; 
^Tedt oK^rofc the desired 
result: 



CREAMS 



Secure pure cream and as fresh as 

°J Si S»rround the bowl in, which the 
cream is being whipped with cracked 
ice, and perform the operation in a cool 

pl 3° e As rapidly as the whipped cream 
arises, skim it off and place it m another 
bowl likewise surrounded witn ice. 

4. Do not whip the cream too long or 
too violently. , , ; 

5 The downward motion of the beater 
should be more forcible than the upward, 
as the first has a tendency to force the air 
into the cream, while the second, on the 
contrary, tends to expel it. 

6 A little powdered sugar should be 
added to the cream after it is whipped, 
in order to sweeten it. . 

7. Make whipped cream m small 
quantities and keep it on ice. 

I. — Cummins's Whipped Cream. — 
Place 12 ounces of rich cream on the ice 
for about 1 hour; then with a whipper 
beat to a consistency that will withstand 
its own weight. 

II. — Eberle's Whipped Cream.— Take 
a pint of fresh, sweet cream, which has 
been chilled by being placed on the ice, 
add to it a heaping tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sugar and 2 ounces of a solution 
of gelatin (a spoonful dissolved in 2 
ounces of water), whip slowly for a 
minute or two until a heavy froth gathers 
on top. Skim off the dense froth, and 
put in container for counter use; con- 
tinue this until you have frothed all that 
is possible. 

III. — Foy's Whipped Cream. — Use 
only pure cream; have it ice cold, and in 
a convenient dish for whipping with a 
wire whipper. A clear, easy, quick, and 
convenient way is to use a beater. Fill 
about one-half full of cream, and beat 
vigorously for 2 or 3 minutes ; a little pow- 
dered sugar may be added before beat- 
ing. The cream may be left' in the 
beater, and placed on ice. 

IV. — American Soda Fountain Com- 
pany's Whipped Cream.— Take 2 earthen 
bowls and 2 tin pans, each 6 or 8 inches 
greater in diameter than the bowls; place 
a bowl in each pan, surround it with 
broken ice, put the cream to be whipped 
in 1 howl, and whip it with a whipped 
cream churn. The cream should be 
pure and rich, and neither suear nor 
gelatin should be added to it. As the 
whipped cream rises and fills the bowl 
remove the churn, and slum off the 
whmped cream into the other bowl. 

lae philosophy of the process is that 



the churn drives air into the ere 
blows an infinity of tiny bubble' a . n< l 
forms the whipped cream- 
churning, raise the dasher ee J5i° ^ ia 
slowly, and bring it down oiil^r an <l 
forcibly. When the sccoJd&W 
of whipped cream, p 0Ur off t C ? fu H 
cream, which has settled to tl„A l^d 
into the first bowl, and whin it 0 *' 
Keep the whipped cream on ice agaia - 

The addition of an even . 
of salt.to 1 quart of sweet crefmfffi* 
whipping wd make it whip Up 
readily and stiff, and stand up JS 
longer and better. 

CRESOL EMULSION, 

One of the best starting points for th 
preparation is the "creosote" obtained 
from blast furnaces, which is rich in 
cresols and contains comparatively little 
phenols. The proportions used are: 
Creosote, 30 parts; soft soap, 10 parts' 
and solution of soda (10 per cent), 30 
parts. Boil the ingredients together for 
an hour, then place aside to settle. The 
dark fluid is afterwards drained from any 
oily portion floating upon the top. 

CREAM, VANISHING: 

(Being a cream, a skin softener and a 
powder, combined in one.) 

Precipitated chalk 1 part 

Glycerine 1 part 

Zinc stearate 1 part 

Oil rose geranium sufficient 

The powders are first to be intimately 
mixed together. The glycerine is to be 
diluted with an equal amount of water 
and the whole rubbed together most 
thoroughly. While the rubbing is beuig 
done, the perfume is to be added, gradu- 
ally, a little at a time. Eight drops of 
oil rose geranium to each three ounce 
of the cream is the proper amount 
perfume to use. 

CROCUS. 

The substance known as cr ° C "i. 
which is so exceedingly useful as » 
ishing medium for steely etc., ^ j 
very generally obtained m t a ■ j, 
produced from coal containing i ^ 
will be easily recognized Dy ~ , 
color, and should be cojlectea g^j 
duced" to a powder for future ^ ^ 
burnishers may be broug n . . nce bj 
state of polish with tf" 0 f M 

rubbing them upon a butJ , After "}' s 
diers' belt or hard wood. ]d be 
operation, the burnisher ,si ^ ^ 
rubbed on a second bull charg 
jewelers' rouge. 




CRYSTALLIZATION— DAMASKEENING 



249 



iliaeral Water Crystals.- 

^phosphate, Cpouuds 

Tron sulphate, dried. . 4 ounces 
p' tassium bicarbonate 6 pounds 
c 0 diiirn bicarbonate ... 15 pounds 
Calcium sulphate, dried 2 ounces 
Amm oniura chloride, 

dried ■ 1 P° und 

Mix together well and then sift sev- 
l times through a screen of at least 
S a mesh. See that everything used in 
mixing is perfectly dry and mix together 
Id a dry room. 

Directions: Put one-half teaspoonful 
into an 8 or 10 ounce glass of ordinary 
drinking water, stir and drink. Keep 
package away from moisture so contents 
not cake or harden. 



CUSTARD POWDER: 

Com flour t pounds 

Arrowroot 8 pounds 

Oil of almond 20 drops 

Oil of nutmegs 10 drops 

Tincture of saffron to color. 

Mix the tincture with a little of the 
mixed flours; then add the essential oils 
and make into a paste ; dry this until it 
can be reduced to a powder, and then 
mix all the ingredients by sifting several 
times through a fine hair sieve. 

CUTLERY CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 

CYLINDER OIL: 

See Lubricants. 

CYMBAL METAL: 

he e Alloys. 

Damaskeening 

a n ?S t as .H eenin g. practiced from most 
'alavint es> consi sts in ornamentally 
Wed f, ° n n metal with another, fol- 
or 1 y - by Peking. Generally 

h wicuTo 1 ; e T loyed in ] aying - 

Vjii n „ • e t0 be decorated by damas- 
Co PPer- 5 ^ snal, y of iron (steel) or 
Csc ) Worf , nental (especially Japan- 
^diWu ° fre quently of bronze, 
jelled 1 black «ned, or, at least, 
o^tivdv So that the damaskeening is 
y ijl Set °. fF from the ground. If 
r! e V J,,? 01 "! 1 ?** of Hnes, the grooves 
a, ^t thi; !T th the graver in such a 
"at they are wider at the hot- 



formed arelaid SfeFf 1 ' 
so as to fill up the op?W ^"T^ 
surface is gone ovi »~ ? * llnall ythe 
surface of ti^inlavTsS 11 '.! 50 that the 
the rest. If the inky? y eTCn ™ ih 

in the form rfffl^^SM 
larger pieces of certain ontlinesthev 
sometimes allowed to project beyoS the 
surface of the metal decorated. A? times 
there are inlays again in the raised port 
tions of another metal; thus, Japanese 
bronze articles often contain figures of 
raised gold inlaid with silver. 

Owing to the high value which dam- 
askeening imparts to articles artistic- 
ally decorated, many attempts have 
been made to obtain similar effects 
in a cheaper manner. One is electro- 
etching, described further on. Another 
process for the wholesale manufacture 
of objects closely resembling damask- 
eened work is the following: By 
means of a steel punch, on which the 
decorations to be produced project in 
relief, the designs are stamped by means 
of a drop hammer or a stamping press 
into gold plated or silver plated sheet 
metal on the side which is to show the 
damaskeening, finally grinding off the 
surface, so that the sunken portions are 
again level. Naturally, the stamped 
portion, as long as the depth of the 
stamping is at least equal to the thick- 
ness of the precious metal on top, will 
appear inlaid. . 

It is believed that much of the early 
damaskeening was done by welding to- 
gether iron and cither a steel or an im- 
pure or alloyed iron, and treating the 
surface with a corroding acid that anect- 
ed the steel or alloy without changing 

tb The n variety or damaskeening known 
as koftgari or kuft-work, P^^JJ 
India, was produced by rougVetehing a 

metallic surface ^^g^imd 

which was imbedded ?° 

only to the etched parts of the design 

Damaskeening ^^ifmF/Te 
askeening of ' metaUic J lat ^ Opiate 
done by elec reikis. A cjPP P f 
is covered witn au d t ^ e 

feeble thickness, s«cU s ^ 
desired design is sc atched in^ ^ 
use of a pointed tool. f ^ 

ponded .in » f ^ h ^ U {SSSive pole of a 
connecting it wlt ^ ™ e n J co p per plate »s 

battery, whi e a ^ P po l\ Th * 
connected ™th the ne S ^ thf w , aX 
current etches grooves^ ^ hftS 
been remove 



350 DAMASKEENING— DECALCOMANIA PROCESSES 



been eaten away, remove the plate from 
the bath, cleanse it with a little hydro- 
chloric acid to remove any traces of oxide 
of copper which might appear on the 
lines of the design; them wash it in plenty 
of water and place it in a bath ot silver 
or nickel, connecting it now with the neg- 
ative pole, the positive pole being repre- 
sented by a leaf of platinum. After a 
certain time the hollows are completely 
filled with a deposit of silver or nickel, 
and it only remains to polish the plate, 
which has the appearance of a piece 
damaskeened by hand. 

Damaskeening on Enamel Dials. — 
Dip the dial into molten yellow wax, 
trace on the dial the designs desired, 
penetrating down to the enamel. Dip 
the dial in a fluorhydric acid a sufficient 
length of time that it may eat to the 
desired depth. Next, wash in several 
waters, remove the wax by means of 
turpentine, i. e., leave the piece covered 
with wax immersed in essence of turpen- 
tine. By filling up the hollows thus ob- 
tained with enamel very pretty effects 
are produced. 

DAUDRUFF CURE : 

See Hair Preparations. 



DECALCOMATHA PROCESSES: 

See also Chromos, Copying Processes, 
and Transfer Processes. 

The decalcomania process of trans- 
ferring pictures requires that the print 
(usually in colors) be made on a spe- 
cially prepared paper. Prints made on 
decalcomania paper may be transferred 
in the reverse to china ware, wood, cellu- 
loid, metal, or any hard smooth surface, 
and being varnished after transfer (or 
burnt in, in the case of pottery) acquire 
a fair degree of permanence. The origi- 
nal print is destroyed by the transfer. 

Applying Decalcomania Pictures on 
Ceramic Products under a Glaze. — A 
biscuit-baked object is first coated with 
a mixture of alcohol, shellac, varnish, 
and liquid glue. Then the prepared 
picture print is transferred on to this 
adhesive layer in the customary manner. 
The glaze, however, does not adhere to 
this coating and would, therefore, not 
cover the picture when fused on. To 
attain this, the layer bearing the transfer 
Picture, as well as the latter, are simul- 
taneously coated with a dextrin solution 
or about 10 per cent. When this dex- 
trin coating is dry, the picture is glazed. 



The mixing proportions of the 
lutions employed, as well as of tl° St> * 
hesive and the dextrin solutions a<1 " 
somewhat according to the phv<^ '1 ^ 
ditions of the porcelain, its poroS C ° a ' 
The following may serve for an e*!' 1 C - 
Dissolve 5 parts of shell ac or em,i P le! 
gum in 25 parts of spirit andTSf 
this liquid with 20 parts of varniS , ? 
8 parts of liquid glue. After drying a 4 
glaze is put on and the ware thus i tvT 
pared is placed in the {jrate fire 

The process described is es pedan 
adapted for him pictures, i. e ., f£ p '7 
as bear the picture on a cohering lav 
usually consisting of collodion. It can 
not be employed outright for guru pi 
tures, i. e. } for such pictures as - 



pictures . 

composed of different pressed surfaces 
consisting mainly of gum or similar m&~ 
terial. If this process is to be adapted 
to these pictures as well, the ware, which 
has been given the biscuit baking, is 
first provided with a crude glaze coat- 
ing, whereupon the details of the proc- 
ess are carried out as described above 
with the exception that there is another 
glaze coating between the adhesive coat 
and the biscuit-baked ware. In this case 
the article is also immediately placed in 
the grate fire. It is immaterial which 
of the two kinds of metachromatypes 
(transfer pictures) is used, in every case 
the baking in the muffle, etc., is dropped. 
The transfer pictures may also be pro- 
duced in all colors for the grate fire. 

Decalcomania Paper.— Smooth un- 
sized paper, not too thick, is coated with 
the following solutions: . 
I. — Gelatin, 10 parts, dissolved in 
This solution is 



The paper 



300 parts warm water 
applied with a sponge, 
should be dried flat. 

II.— Starch, 50 parts; gum traga- 
canth, dissolved in 600 parts ot 
(The gum tragacanlh is soaked in ^ 
parts of water; in the other 300 parts *| 
starch is boiled to a paste; the ' t*° 
then poured together and polled^ 
dried paper is brushed w.th f ■ 
uniformly, a fairly thick coa t beug £ 
the paper is then allowed w 



plied, 
again. 

III.— One 



paper 

part blood % 



J - L - L - — V - ,IXC l J '" u "*~r _ ol i im irs. * 
soaked in 3 parts water tor 84 ll0 " d J c d 
small quantity of sal aminoniao t 
The paper, after having » e / J ^} e d, i-< 



after having b * e ", rie d, is 
with these three solutions ana pJ 
run through the printing pre», ^ed 
tures, however, being^ 
so that it may appear m its t"^,^ 
when transferred. Any colored 
be used. 




r 



DECALCOMANIA PROCESSES^DENTIFRICES 



251 



tV ^transfer paper known as "de- 
IV- 1 n jde " invented by J. B. Dur- 
^ ue c SV of a Paper of the kind 
,j v uS ed for making pottery trans- 
£ ener £ t coated with a mixture of gum 
m W oot solutions in the propor- 
*» d %TZts of the latter to 100 of the 
io^ otA1 f[ ie coating is applied in the 
laT r e !rv manner, but the paper is only 
ordinal - Furthermore^ to decorate 
seo)H r,a ft ^ mcan s of this new trans- 
f^Zier there is no need to immerse 
feSe in a bath in order to get the 
JapeTto draw off, as it will come away 



ith a ds 

f ler having been in position for less than 



moistened ' • ; . 



fSutes, "whereas the ordinary papers 
require a much longer time. 

Picture Transferrer. — A very weak 
solution of soft soap and pearlashes is 
used to transfer recent prints, such as 
illustrations from papers, magazines, 
etc., to unglazed paper, on the decalco- 
mania principle. Such a solution is: 

I— Soft soap bounce 

Pearlash % drachms 

Distilled water. .. . 16 fluidounces 
The print is laid upon a flat surface, 
such as a drawing board, and moistened 
■with the liquid. The paper on which 
the reproduction is required is laid over 
this, and then a sheet of thicker paper 
placed on the top, and the whole rubbed 
evenly and hard with a blunt instrument, 
such as the bowl of a spoon, until the 
desired depth of color in the transferrer 
is obtained. Another and more artistic 
process is to cover the print with a trans- 
parent sheet of material coated with 
ffa J' to tr aee out the pictures with a point 
^ to take rubbings of the same after 
Pondering with plumbago. 
Hard 



s ?ap 1 drachm 

y'ycerme. ... 30 
Alcohol.. 
Water... 



grains 
4 fiuidrachms 
1 fluidounce 



< fllufi niPe K tKe P rInted matter with the 
, " 1 »y sponging, and proceed as 



tlOEl 

with I. 



NTIST'S IMPRESSION WAX : 

& chalk 22 

Stearin mar <P owdered ) ■ ■ 12 

thetl adr 1 fi nn and shake dammar into i 
*>ne, j»j . chal k tinted with the cai 
^umo " aIs P s °me scent, such as B 
Itj geranium oil. 




dentifrices 

TOOTH POWDERS: 

A perfect tooth dow<W 1+. 1 
the teeth and mouth with Wdl ^ 
need contain but fet Wdffi? 8 ^ 
easily made. For the baf t rc X S^h 
lag better than . \ Lrc _ ls noth- 

possesses all the 
properties necessary _ U1 , t 
cleansing of the teeth, and it i s t f 0 
soft to do any injury to soft or to de- 
fective or thinly enameled teeth. This 
cannot be said of pumice, cuttlebone, 
charcoal, kieselguhr, and similar abral 
dants that are used in tooth powders 
Their use is reprehensible in a tooth 
powder. The use of pumice or other 
active abradant is well enough occasion- 
ally, by persons afflicted with a growth 
of tartar on the teeth, but even then it is 
best applied by a competent dentist. 
Abrading powders have much to answer 
for in hastening the day of the toothless 
race. 

Next in value comes soap. Powderec 
white castile soap is usually an ingredient 
of tooth powders. There is nothing so 
effective for removing sordes or thick- 
ened mucus from the gums or mouth. 
But used alone or in too large propor- 
tions, the taste is unpleasant. Orris 
possesses no cleansing properties^ but is 
used for its flavor and because it is most 
effective for masking the taste of the 
soap. Sugar or saccharine may be usee 
for sweetening, and for flavoring almost, 
anvthing can be used. Flavors should, 
in the main, be used singly, though mixed 
flavors lack the clean taste of simple 

flavors. , , ■ .1 a 

The most popular tooth powder sold is the 



pound 

ounce 

ounces 



_L ne most uui/uitii r ~ , 

white, saponaceous .wingj^ 
powder, and here is a tor. 
type: 

I. — Precipitated chalk. . . 
White castile soap. ■ • 
Florentine orris.. 
Sugar (or saccharine, 

2 grains) 

Oil of wintergreen . . . 
The first tour ^etedie^ fould^ 
the finest possible f owd ^fj^ th part 
oflhTchalk! and rrdf thif with the Ll- 



1 ounce 
£ ounce 



ds 



ance of the chalk 

separately through after war 

finer), and mix well togethe , Tfa 
sift ing the mlxtl 7i e ° m0 re the mixtur 

will be 



g52 



DENTIFRICES 



This powder will cost about 15 cents a 

P °Pink rose-flavored powder of the Caswell 
and Hazard, Hudnut or McMahan type 
once so popular m New York. It was 
xnade in two styles, with and without 
soap. . 
H.— Precipitated chalk. . . 1 pound 

Florentine orris 2 ounces 

Sugar li ounces 

White castile soap. . . 1 ounce 

No. 40 carmine 15 grains 

Oil of rose 12 drops 

Oil of cloves , * drops 

Dissolve the carmine in an ounce of 
water of ammonia and triturate this with 
nart of the chalk until the chalk is uni- 
formly dyed. Then spread it in a thin 
layer on a sheet of paper and allow the 
ammonia to evaporate. When there is 
no ammoniacal odor left, mix this dyed 
chalk with the rest of the chalk and 
sift the whole several times until thor- 
oughly mixed. Then proceed to make 
up the powder as in the previous formula, 
first sifting each ingredient separately 
and then together, being careful thor- 
oughly to triturate the oils of rose and 
cloves with the orris after it is sifted and 
before it is added to the other powders. 
The oil of cloves is used to back up the 
oil of rose. It strengthens and accen- 
tuates the rose odor. Be careful not to 
get a drop too much, or it will predomi- 
nate over the rose. 

Violet Tooth Powder. — 

Precipitated chalk. .. . 1 pound 

Florentine orris 4 ounces 

Castile soap 1 ounce 

Sugar ounces 

Extract of violet \ ounce 

Evergreen coloring, R. & F., quan- 
tity sufficient. 

Proceed as in the second formula, dye- 
ing the chalk with the evergreen coloring 
to the desired shade before mixing. 

III. — Precipitated chalk. 16 pounds 

Powdered orris. .. . 4 pounds 
Powdered cuttlefish 

bone... 2 pounds 

Ultramarine iH ounces 

Geranium lake. ,. , 340 grains 

Jasmine.... 110 minims 

Oil of neroli 110 minims 

Oil of bitter al- 
monds 35 minims 

Vanillin 50 grains 

Artificial musk 

(Lautier's) 60 grains 

Saccharine 140 grains 

Rub up the perfumes with 2 ounces of 
alcohol, dissolve the saccharine in warm 



water, add all to the orris, and set 
to dry. Rub the colors up with wT 8 
and some chalk, and when dry na« u 
through a mixer and sifter twice to K 1 
out the color. oriI1 8 

Camphorated and Carbolated Powders 
— A camphorated tooth powder niav K 
made by leaving out the oil of winter 
green in the first formula and adding u 
ounces of powdered camphor. * 

Carbolated tooth powder may lik 
wise be made with the first formula U 
substituting 2 drachms of liquefied ear. 
bolic acid for the oil of wintergreen* 
But the tooth powder gradually loses the 
odor and taste of the acid. It is not of 
much utility anyway, as the castile soap 
In the powder is of far greater antiseptic 
power than the small amount of carbolic 
acid that can safely be combined in a 
tooth powder. Soap is one of the best 
antiseptics. 

Alkaline salts, borax, sodium bicar- 
bonate, etc., are superfluous in a powder 
already containing soap. The only use- 
ful purpose they might serve is to correct 
acidity of the mouth, and that end can be 
reached much better by rinsing the 
mouth with a solution of sodium bicar- 
bonate. Acids have no place in tooth 
powders, the French Codex to the con- 
trary not withstanding. 

Peppermint as a Flavor.— In France 
and all over Europe peppermint is the 
popular flavor, as wintergreen is in this 
country. . 

English apothecaries use sugar of milk 
and heavy calcined magnesia in many of 
their tooth powders. .Neither has any 
particular virtue as a tooth cleanser, but 
both are harmless. Cane sugar is pref- 
erable to milk sugar as a sweetener, ana 
saccharine is more efficient, though ob- 
jected to by some; it should be usea 
in the proportion of 2 to 5 gmms » 
the pound of powder, and ffffjgi 
taken to have it thoroughly distributed 

throughout. , fining 

An antiseptic tooth powder ^If f^ 
the antiseptic ingredients ol listen > 
popular in some localities. , 
IV.— Precipitated chalk . - 1 J^ma 

Castile soap ° drachfl 13 

S? raX -j go grain* 

Menthol * £ ra i n s 

Eucalyptol * drains 

Oil of wintergreen . . " u J unce 

Alcohol "-i s in the 

Dissolve the thymol and oi ^ 
alcohol, and triturate wtth tlie c 
proceed as in the first formula. 



f a ult with this powder is the dis- 
° n \le taste of the thymol. .This 
•B^T: omitted and the oil of winter- 
ma/ increased to the improvement of 
S reea f i but with some loss of antisep- 
tic tas te , 
tic power. 

A**? 6 P 7 der ' _ so part, 
V — Boric acid 5U parts 

V ' Salicylic acid. ... 50 parts 
peon's blood. . . 20 parts 
Calcium carbon- 

ate 1,000 parts 

Essence spearmint. 12 parts 
Reduce the dragon's blood and cal- 
■ I1D1 carbonate to the finest powder, 
nnd mix the ingredients thoroughly. 

powder should be used twice a day, 
or even oftener, in bad cases. It is es- 
pecially recommended in cases where 
tde enamel has become eroded from the 
effects of iron. 

Menthol Tooth Powder. — Menthol 
leaves a cool and pleasant sensation in 
the mouth, and is excellent for fetid 
breath. It may be added to most for- 
mulas by taking an equal quantity of oil 
of wintergreen and dissolving in alcohol. 

Menthol 1 part 

Salol 8 parts 

Soap, grated fine. ... 20 parts 
Calcium carbonate. . 20 parts 
Magnesia carbonate 60 parts 
Essential oil of mint. 2 parts 
Powder finely and mix. If there is 
much tartar on the teeth it will be well 
to add to this formula from 10 to 20 
parts of pumice, powdered very finely. 

.. Tooth Powders and Pastes. — Although 
! a r i ect olj i ect of these is to keep the 
pth clean and white, they also prevent 
j^cay, if it is only by force of mere clean- 
ne ss, and in this way (and also by re- 



Iw? B i deCom Posing particles of food) 
soa T? P the breath sweet and whole- 
tooth j necessar y properties of a 
acc P^der are cleansing power un- 
cal B -*P. anied b > v a "y abradi ng or chemi- 



ac tion on th< 



tain aii uu Lne t eeL h themselves, a cer- 
Hto J i n ? oi an tiseptic power to enable 
a coS T , P articles of stale food, and 
taste o al ? sen ce of any disagreeable 
easy to 1 S r 1 : These conditions are 
Ve ry In e m P ra ctice, and there is a 
P°*der? e number of efficient and good 
apt to in 1 aS We ^' as not a ^ ew which are 
to ii nae n,ut . e tbe teeth if care is not taken 
after „VL the mouth very thoroughly 
?' tK e if". aese powders include some 
te <sn c ! e ansers, and 



have hence 
, ■ • - j u j wing recip 
J ia ^en from English collections 



^ostlv tK. ed . in the following recipes 



II,_ RbTP al departs 
? edklno 156 parts 



Sugar. 



6 parts 



T"M ■ p i_ 

flavor with peppermint oil 



270 parts 

1 part 
1 part 



III. — Charcoal. 

Sulphate of 
quinine. . . . 
Magnesia. . . . 
Scent to liking. 

IV. — Charcoal 30 parts 

Cream of tar- 
ty ;•• 8 parts 

xellow cin- 
chona bark 4 parts 

Sugar 15 parts 

Scent with oil of cloves. 

V.— Sugar 120 parts 

Alum 10 parts 

Cream of tar- 
tar. 20 parts 

Cochineal, ... 3 parts 

VI. — Cream of tar- 
tar 1,000 parts 

Alum 190 parts 

Carbonate of 

magnesia.. 375 parts 

Sugar 375 parts 

Cochineal 75 parts 

Essence Cey- 
lon cinna- 
mon 90 parts 

Essence 

cloves 75 parts 

Essence Eng- 
lish pep- 
permint. . . 45 parts 

VII. — Sugar. . ..... 200 parts 

Cream of tar- 
tar 400 parts 

Magnesia. ... 400 parts 

Starch 400 parts 

Cinnamon.-- 32 parts 

Mace 11 P arts 

Sulphate of 

quinine.... 16 parts 

Carmine 17 parts 

Scent with oil of peppermint and oil o 
rose. 

VIII. -Bleachingpow- ^ ^ 



der 
Red coral . 



12 parts 



gnesia .... 

Cochineal 

Alum. 

Cream of tar- 
tar. 



50 parts 
9 parts 
6 parts 

100 parts 



254 



DENTIFRICES 



English pep- 
permint oil. 4 parts 
Cinnamon oil 2 parts 

Grind the first five ingredients sepa- 
rately then mix the alum with the cochi- 
neal, and then add to it the cream of tar- 
tar and the bark. In the meantime the 
magnesia is mixed with the essential oils, 
and finally the whole mass is mixed 
through a very fine silk sieve. 

X. — White wood 

charcoal. - . 250 parts 
Cinchona 

bark 125 parts 

Sugar ... 250 parts 

Peppermint 

oil 12 parts 

Cinnamon oil 8 parts 

XI.— Precipitated 

chalk 750 parts 

Cream of tar- 
tar 250 parts 

Florence or- 
ris root .... 250 parts 
Sal ammoniac GO parts 
Ambergris. . . 4 parts 
Cinnamon. . . 4 parts 

Coriander 4 parts 

Cloves 4 parts 

Rosewood ... 4 parts 

XII. — D r a g o n ' s 

blood 250 parts 

Cream of tar- 
tar 30 parts 

Florence or- 
ris root. ... 30 parts 

Cinnamon. . . 16 parts 

Cloves 8 parts 

XIII. — Precipitated 

chalk 500 parts 

Dragon's 

blood 250 parts 

Red sandal- 
wood 125 parts 

Alum. . 125 parts 

Orris root. . . , 250 parts 

Cloves 15 parts 

Cinnamon. . . 15 parts 

Vanilla 8 parts 

Rosewood ... 15 parts 
Carmine lake 250 parts 
Carmine 8 parts 

XIV. — Cream of tar- 
tar 150 parts 

Alum 25 parts 

Cochineal.... 12 parts 

Cloves 25 parts 

Cinnamon. ,. 25 parts 

Rosewood. . . 6 parts 
Scent with essence of rose. 



XV.-Coral 20 

& ga 5* 2 °Par5 
VYood char- F s 

coal r , 

i? ; • " parts 

Jissence of ver- 

vain 1 part 

XVI. — Precipitated 

chalk. 500 parts 

Orris root.. .. 500 p arta 

Carmine X parl 

Sugar lpan 

Essence of 

rose.. 4part3 
Essence ot ne- 

roli ... 4 parts 

XVII. — C i n c h o n a 

bark 50 parts 

Chalk 100 parts 

Myrrh 50 parts 

Orris root.. . . 100 parts 

Cinnamon. . . 50 parts 
Carbonate of 

ammonia. . 100 parts 

Oil of cloves. 2 parts 

XVIII. — Gum arabic. . 30 parts 

Cutch 80 parts 

Licorice juice. 550 parts 

Cascarilla.. . . 20 parts 

Mastic ...... 20 parts 

Orris root. . . 20 parts 
Oil of cloves.. 5 parts 
Oil of pepper- 
mint 15 parts 

Extract of 

amber 5 parts 

Extract of 

musk 5 parts 

XIX.— Chalk 200 parts 

Cuttlebone... 100 parts 

Orris root.. . . 100 parts 

B cream ot oil.. Mparts 

Lemon oil...- 4 par s 

Nerolioil.- .- IF 

Portugal oil. . 2 parts 

XX.-Borax 50 parts 

Chalk 100 pa^ 

Myrrh \ ^ 

Orris root...- JJ P a 

Cinnamon... 25 parts 

XXI— Wood char- gQparts 

mSte honey: 80 PJjJ 
Vanilla sugar 30 par* 

Cl bark h .° na >«r t3 
Flavor with oil of peppcrim^- 
XXII.~Syrupof33»B. 33 pjjg 
Cuttlebone - 800 p 
Carmine lake 3" P 
English oil. of ^ 
peppermint 




DENTIFRICES 



£55 



Red coral . 50 parts 

Cinnamon. . . 32 parts 

Cochineal 6 parts 

Alum %l parts 

Honey 125 parts 

vVster G parts 



Triturate the cochineal and the alum 
A tlie water. 1 hen, after allowing 
i I. to stand for 24 hours, put in the 
v the coral, and the cinnamon, 
k° ne * ' tlie effervescence has ceased, 

vllH 



50 parts 

50 parts 
] 2 parts 
12 parts 



3 parts 
3 parts 



WhMi the effervescence 

iS* happens in about 48 hours, flavor 
aftieiSa] oilsto taste. 

XXI V. — Well-s kimmed 

honey 

Syrup of pep- 
permint. . . 

Orris root .... 

Sal ammoniac 

Cream of tar- 
tar : . . 12 parts 

Tincture of 
cinnamon. . 

Tincture of 
cloves ..... 

Tine t n r e of 

vanilla .... 3 parts 

Oil of cloves. 1 part 

XXV. — Cream of tar- 

tar 120 parts 

Pumice 120 parts 

Alum 30 parts 

Cochineal.... 30 parts 

Bergamotoil. 3 parts 

Clove. 3 parts 

Make to a thick paste with honey or 
sugar. 

XXT/X— Honey. 250 parts 

Precipit a t e d 

chalk 250 parts 

Orris root.. . . 250 parts 
Tincture of 

opium 

Tincture of 

myrrh 

Oil of rose . . . 
Oil of cl oves. . 
Oil of nutmeg 

— Florentine or- 
ris 

Magn esium 
carbonate. . 
Almond soap 
Calcium car- 
' bonate .... 
Thymol 



7 parts 

7 parts 
2 parts 
2 parts 
2 parts 

6 parts 

2 parts 
12 parts 



60 parts 
1 part 



Al l - - - . a pc* i 1/ 

TV, , Alcohol, quantity sufficient. 

^etbvrn i ■ Sollds and Dissolve 
arid a £j 1 ,n little alcohol as possible, 
pa rts 0 f p .f r 'yme in a mixture m equal 
ou of peppermint, oil of clove, 



powder will be sufficieVt ^ ° UnCe of 
5 parts; l ime LrbVat^QO^ 

gfni s de^^;fe? oi f- s S 

ori wmtergreen oil, or peppermint oil - 3 
i *— Pt,wder ed camphor, G parts- 
rnyrrh 15 parts; powdered Peruvian 
bark, 6 parts; distilled water, 12 P a* s 
alcohol of 8 9 ° P., 50 parts. ' M a ?c£te 
the powders m the alcohol for a week and 
then filter, 

XXXI. — Soap, 1; saccharine, 0.025; 
thymol, 0.05; lime carbonate, 50; sassa- 
fras essence, enough to perfume. 

XXXII. —Camphor, 0,5; soap, 1; sac- 
charine, 0.025; calcium carbonate, 50; 
oil of sassafras, or cassia, or of gaul- 
theriw,, enough to perfume. 

XXXIII. — Myrrh, 1; sodium chloride, 
1; soap, 50; lime carbonate, 50; rose oil 
as required. 

XXXIV. — Precipitated calcium car- 
bonate, 60 parts; quinine sulphate, 2 
parts; saponine, 0.1 part; saccharine 
0.1 part; carmine as required; oil of 
peppermint, sufficient. 

XXXV. — Boraeic acid, 100 parts; 
powdered starch, 50 parts; quinine hy- 
drochlorate, 10 parts; saccharine, 1 part; 
vanillin (dissolved in alcohol), 1.5 parts. 

Neutral Tooth Powder.— Potassium 
chlorate, 200 parts; starch, 200 parts; 
carmine lake, 40 parts; saccharine (in 
alcoholic solution), 1 part; vanillin (dis- 
solved in alcohol), 1 part. 
Tooth Powder for Children.— 
Magnesia carbonate. . 10 parts 
Medicinal soap 10 parts 



Mediciu»i $ 

Sepia powder 80 parts 

Peppermint oil, quantity sufficient 
to flavor. 



Flavorings for Dentifrice. 

L-Sassaf ras oil. true. ... 1 *g| 
Pinnspumdmoil.... -0 nu^ 



Bitter orange qi 



ichm 

minims 

20 minims 

,i g minims 

Wintergreen oil ^ 

Anise oil . - • " ■ * , m ; n im 

Rose geranium oil..- j ^ 

Alcohol 

Use according to taste. , 

H.-Qa of peppermint, 

English. £ ^ 

Oil of aniseed " f 



DENTIFRICES 



On of clove J P a 5 

Oil of cinnamon 1 P art 

Saffron } P^ 1 

Deodorized alcohol 850 parts 

Water 800 parts 

Or, cassiaj 4 parts, and vanilla, J part, 
lay be substituted for the saffron. 

LIQUID DENTIFRICES AND TOOTH 
WASHES: 

A French Dentifrice— I— A prepara- 
tion which has a reputation in France as 
liquid dentifrice is composed of alco- 
10 I 96 per cent, 1,000 parts; Mitcham 
3 eppermint oil, 30 parts aniseed oil, 5 
jarts; oil of Acorus calamus, 0.5 parts. 

iely powdered cochineal and cream of 
tartar, 5 parts each, are used to tint the 
solution. The mixed ingredients are set 
aside for 14 days before filtering. 

Sozodont. — 

II. — The liquid tooth preparation 
'Sozodont" is said to contain: Soap 
powder, 60 parts; glycerine, 60 parts; 
ilcohol, 360 parts; water, 220 parts; oils 
of peppermint, of aniseed, of clover, and 
of cinnamon, 1 part each; oil of winter- 
green, 1-200 part. 

HI.— Thymol 2 grains 

Benzoic acid 24 grains 

Tincture eucalyptus. . 2 drachms 

Alcohol quantity sufficient to 
make 2 ounces. 
Mis. Sig.: A teaspoonful diluted with 
half a wineglassful of water. 

IV- — Carbolic acid, pure ... 2 ounces 
Glycerine, 1,260° .... 1 ounce 

Oil wintergreen 6 drachms 

Oil cinnamon 3 drachms 

Powdered cochineal . . £ drachra 

S. V. R 40 ounces 

Distilled water ...... 40 ounces 

Dissolve the acid in the glycerine with 
the aid of a gentle heat and the essential 
oils in the spirit; mix together, and add 
the water and cochineal ; then let the prep- 
aration stand for a week and filter. 

A mixture of caramel and cochineal 
coloring, N. F., gives an agreeable red 
color for saponaceous tooth washes. It 
is not permanent, however. 

Variations of this formula follow; 
V. — White castile soap .... 1 ounce 
Tincture of as arum ... 2 drachms 

Oil of peppermint J drachm 

Oil of wintergreen .... ijr drachm 

Oil of cloves 5 drops 

Oil of cassia 5 drops 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Alcohol 14 ounces 

Water, 14 ounces 



VI. — White castile aoap . . \l 0Unce ^ 

Oil of orange i 0 minl 

Oi of cassia 6 ruiuima 

Oil of wmtergreen... 15 mini 

GJy^T* 3 ounces 

Alcohol 8 ounces 

Water enough to make 1 quart 

VII. — White castile soap. . . 3 ounces 

Glycerine 5 Quncea 

W at f r -, 20 ounces 

Alcohol 30 ounces 

Oil of peppermint. . . 1 drachm 
Oil of wintergreen. . . 1 drachm 
Oil of orange peel. . , 1 drachm. 

Oil of anise 1 drachm 

Oil of cassia 1 drachm 

Beat up the soap with the glycerine- 
dissolve the oils in the alcohol and add to 
the soap and glycerine. Stir well until 
the soap is completely dissolved. 

VIII. — White castile soap. ... 1 ounce 

Orris root 4 ounces 

Rose leaves 4 ounces 

Oil of rose £ drachm 

Oil of neroli | drachm 

Cochineal | ounce 

Diluted alcohol 2 quarts 

If the wash is intended simply as an 
elixir for sweetening the breath, the fol- 
lowing preparation, resembling the cele- 
brated eau de botot, will be found very 
desirable : 

IX. — Oil of peppermint. ... 30 minima 

Oil of spearmint 15 minims 

Oil of cloves 5 minims 

Oil of red cedar 

wood 60 minims 

Tincture of myrrh. . . 1 ounce 

Alcohol 1 pint 

Care must be taken not to confound 
the oil of cedar tops with the oil of cedar 
wood. The former has an odor like tur- 
pentine; the latter has the fragrance oi 
the red cedar wood. 

F For a cleansing wash, a solution of soap 
is to be recommended. It may be made after 
the following formula: 

X.— White castile soap ... 1 ounce 

Alcohol 6 ounces 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Hot water 6 ounces 

Oil of peppermint.... 15 DUntfg 

Oil of wintergreen... 20 m*}™ 9 

Oil of cloves 5 mnnms 

Extract of vanilla.. . . i oUIlct , 

Dissolve the soap in the hot ^tj^gjjj 
add the glycerine and extract of V» ^ 
Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, nnx .| 
solutions, and after 24 hours filter tar 
paper. 



DENTIFRICES 



257 



* ;„ customary to color such p*epara- 
3 An agreeable brown-yellow tint 
tions- ^ ver f by the addition of a small 
i-L°nf caramel. A red color may 
quai^ ^ coc hineal. The color will 
be g iv , e , V yj|] be found reasonably per- 
fatJe ' n t when kept from strong light. 

TOOTH SOAPS AND PASTES: 
Tooth Soaps.— 

t White castile soap . . 225 parts 
Precipitated chalk . . 225 parts 

Orris W ..... 225 parts 

Oil of peppermint. . 7 parts 

Oil of cloves . . t 4 parts 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 

n— Castile soap 100 drachms 

Precipitated chalk. . 100 drachms 
Powdered orris root. 100 drachms 

White sugar. 50 drachms 

Rose water 50 drachms 

Oil of cloves 100 drops 

Oil of peppermint. . . 3 drachms 
Dissolve the soap in water, add the 
rose water, then rub up with the sugar 
with which the oils have been previously 
triturated, the orris root and the pre- 
cipitated chalk. 

Ill— Potassium chlorate, 20 drachms; 
powdered white soap, 10 drachms; pre- 
cipitated chalk, 20 drachms; peppermint 
oil, 15 drops; clove oil, 5 drops; glycer- 
ine, sufficient to mass. Use with a soft 
brush. 



Saponaceous Tooth Pastes. — ■ 

I. — Precipitated car- 
bonate of lime . . 90 

Soap powder 30 

Ossa sepia, pow- 
dered 15 

Tincture of cocaine 45 

Oil of peppermint. 6 

Oil of ylang-ylang. 0 

Glycerine 30 

Rose water to cause 

tion. Carmine sol 
color. 

Precipitated car- 

boriate of lime . . 150 

boap powder 45 

Arrowroot 45 

Oil of eucalyptus . 2 

Oi of peppermint. 1 

V" of geranium . . 1 



parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
3 parts 
parts 
liquefac- 
ution to 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
part 

( .- .-. . part 

Un of cloves 0.25 parts 

Oil of aniseed . . . . 0.25 parts 

glycerine 45 parts 

Chloroform water to cause lique- 
faction. Carmine solution to 
color. 



Cherry Tooth Paste.— 

root. 



100 drachma 

- " u.cicu rose 

0; e V e f 60 drops 

0 ^cloves 55 drops 

01 of mace . .... eg dro £ s 
Uil of geranium. . 55 drops 

Chinese Tooth Paste.— 

IV.— Powdered pumice 100 drachma 

20 drachms 

Oil of peppermint 40 drops 
Carmine i drachm 

Eucalyptus Paste.— Forty drachm 
precipitated chalk, 11 drachms soa 
powder, 11 drachms wheaten stare 
| drachm carmine, 30 drops oil of pep- 
permint, 30 drops oil of geranium, 6i 
drops eucalyptus oil, 2 drops oil i 
cloves, 12 drops oil of anise mixed t 
gether and incorporated to a paste, wit! 
a mixture of equal parts of glycerine an' 
spirit. 

Myrrh Tooth Paste.— 

Precipitated chalk 8 ounces 

Orris 8 ounces 

White castile soap. 2 ounces 

Borax 2 ounces 

Myrrh 1 ounce 

Glycerine, quantity sufficient. 
Color and perfume to suit. 
A thousand grams of levigated po; 
dered oyster shells are rubbed up vrv 
12 drachms of cochineal to a homogen* 
ous powder. To this is added 1 drachi 
of potassium permanganate and 1 dracJ 
boric acid and rubbed well up. * oam 
200 drachms castile soap and 5 draenms 
chemically pure glycerine and 
the foregoing mass, adding by teaspoon 
ul 150 Irams of boiling strained ^hone 
The whole mass is again 

for 2 hours. 

Tooth Paste to be put in Collapsible 

Tubes.— 

Calcium carbonate * 

levigated 

Cuttlefish bone, in fine g _ 

powder ■ ■ • * : ■ 

Castile soap, old white, 

powdered * 

Tincture of carmine, ^ 

ammonia tea ^ 

Simple syrup 




358 



DENTIFRICES 



Menthol 2 parts 

Alcohol 5 parts 

Attar of rose or other perfume, quan- 
tity sufficient. 
Rose water sufficient to make a paste. 
Beat the soap with a little rose water, 
then warm until softened, add syrup 
and tincture of carmine. Dissolve the 
perfume and menthol in the alcohol and 
add to soap mixture. Add the solids 
and incorporate thoroughly. JnnaUy, 
work to a proper consistency for filling 
into collapsible tubes, adding water, it 
necessary. 
MOUTH WASHES. 

I.— Quillaia bark 125 parts 

Glycerine 95 parts 

Alcohol 155 parts 

Macerate for 4 days and add: 
Acid, c a r b o 1 . 

cryst 4 parts 

Ol. geranii 0.6 parts 

01. earyophyll . . 0.6 parts 

Ol. rostE 0.6 parts 

Ol. cinnam 0.6 parts 

Tinct. ratanhse. . 45 parts 

Aquarosse 900 parts 

Lacerate again for 4 days and filter. 

Thymol 20 parts 

Peppermint oil. . 10 parts 

Clove oil 5 parts 

Sage oil 5 parts 

Marjoram oil. . . 3 parts 
Sassafras oil ... . 8 parts 
Wintergreen oil. 0.5 parts 
Coumarin ... ... 0.5 parts 

Alcohol, dil 1,000 parts 

teaspoonful in a glass of water. 

S ' — Tincture orris (1 

in 4) 1£ parts 

Lavender water .. . § part 
Tinct. cinnamon 

(1 in 8) 1 part 

Tinct. yellow cinch 

bark 1 part 

Eau de cologne 2 parts 

Orris and Rose. — 

III. — Orris root 30 drachms 

Rose leaves 8 drachms 

Soap bark 8 drachms 

Cochineal 3$ drachms 

Diluted alcohol. . 475 drachms 

Oil rose 30 drops 

Oil neroli 40 drops 

Myrrh. Astringent. — 

IV. — Tincture myrrh. . 125 drachms 
Tincture benzoin. 50 drachms 
Tincture cinchona 8 drachms 

Alcohol 225 drachms 

Oil of rose 30 drops 



Borotonic. — 

V. — Acid boric 20 _ . 

Oil wintergreen. 10 p art 

Glycerine...... no £ art 

ALcohol 15 0 . 

Distilled water p "* 

enough to make 600 parts 
Sweet Salicyl. — 

VI. — Acid salicylic. ... 4 paTta 

Saccharine l p ar £ 

Sodium bicar- 
bonate X part 

Alcohol 200 parts 

Foaming Orange. — 

VII. — Castile soap. . . 29 drachms 

Oil orange 10 drops 

Oil cinnamon. . . 5 drops 

Distilled water.. 30 drachms 

Alcohol 90 drachms 

Australian Mint. — 

VIII.— Thymol 0.25 parts 

Acid benzoic. . . 3 parts 
Tincture eucalyp- 
tus 15 parts 

Alcohol . . 100 parts 

Oil peppermint. 0.75 parts 

Fragrant Dentine. — 

IX. — Soap bark 125 parts 

Glycerine 95 parts 

Alcohol 155 parts 

Rose water 450 parts 

Macerate for 4 days and add: 

Carbolic acid, 

cryst 4 parts 

Oil geranium. . . 0.6 parts 

Oil cloves . 0.6 parts 

Oil rose 0.6 parts 

Oil cinnamon. . . 0.6 parts 

Tincture rhatany 45 parts 

Rose water 450 parts 

Allow to stand 4 days; then filter. 

Aromantiseptic. — 

X.— Thymol 20 P aT J s 

Oil peppermint. 10 P arts 

Oil cloves 5 par s 

Oil sage 5 parts 

Oil marjoram... 3 P*™ 
Oil sassafras. ... 3 parts 
Oil wintergreen. 0.5 parts 

Coumarin 0-5 P» r * 

Diluted alcohol. 1.000 parts 
The products of the foregoing formula? 

are used in the proportion of 1 teasp 

ful in a half glassful of water. 

Foaming. — 

XL— Soap bark, powder 3 ounces 
Cochineal powder. 60 grams 
Glycerine. S ounces 



DENTIFRICES— DEPILATORIES 



Alcohol 10 ounces 

Water sufficient 

to make 32 ounces 

the soap, cochineal, glycerine, 
*r*i „J water together; let macerate 
* lcob S days; filter and flavor; if 
for '^L'duces" turbidity, shake up the 
531116 with magnesium carbonate, and 
gj^hrough paper. 

rT r -Soap bark, powder 2 ounces 
Cudbear, powder. 4 drachms 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Alcohol 14 ounces 

Water sufficient 

to make 32 ounces 

Mir and let macerate with frequent 
Station, for several days; filter; add 
flavor; if necessary filter again through 
magnesium carbonate or paper pulp. 
Sweet Anise.— 

XIIL— Soap bark bounces 

Aniseed 4 drachms 

Cloves 4 drachms 

Cinnamon 4 drachms 

Cochineal 60 grains 

Vanilla ... 60 grains 

Oil of peppermint. 1 drachm 

Alcohol 16 ounces 

Water sufficient to 

make 32 ounces 

Reduce the drugs to coarse powder, 
dissolve the oil of peppermint in the 
alcohol, add equal parts of water, and 
macerate therein the powders for 5 to 6 
days, with frequent agitation; place in 
percolator and percolate until 32 fluid- 
ounces have been obtained. Let stand for 
a week and filter through paper; if neces- 
sary to make it perfectly bright and 
cle "i shake up with some magnesia, 
*&d again filter. 
Saponaceous. — 

^V.--Whjt e castile soap 2 ounces 

Glycerine 2 ounces 

Alcohol 8 ounces 

Water 4 ounces 

Oil peppermint. . . 20 drops 
Oil wmtergrecn. . . 30 drops 
solution of carmine N. F. suffi- 
tv c , Cl ent to color. 
*atw ij the soa F in the alcohol and 
filter.' tile ot ' ier ingredients, and 

'Crystallized car- 

bolic acid 4 parts 

^ucalyptol 1 part 

$f o1 -, 2 parts 

menthol 0 .25 parts 

t. h yttiol o.l part 

fc»^n?H: 100 P arts 

llh cochineal (14 per cent). 



259 

Jackson's Mouthwash - p rM i 1 
peel, 10 parts; fresh sweet SSL 1 "? °f 
10 parts; angelica ront 1 o\? i g pe . el » 

Tablets for Antiseptic Month Wash — 
Hehotropmc 0.01 part; saccharine 
0.0 part; sahcyhc acid, 0.01 part; 
ho , 1 part; milk sugar, 5 parts. Thes, 
tablets may be dyed green, red, or bhi e 
with chlorophyll, eosme, andind : ~ — 
mine, respectively. 



Depilatories 

Depilatory Cream.— The depilatory 
cream largely used in New York hospi- 
tals for the removal of hair from the skin 
previous to operations: 

I. — Barium sulphide. ... 3 parts 

Starch 1 part 

Water, sufficient quantity. 

The mixed powders are to be mad* 
into a paste with water, and applied in a 
moderately thick layer to the parts to be 
denuded of hair, the excess of the latter 
having been previously trimmed off witl 
a pair of scissors. From time to time « 
small part of the surface should be ex- 
amined, and when it is seen that the 
hair can be removed, the mass sbouh 
be washed off. The barium sulphide 
should be quite fresh. It can be pre; 
pared by making barium sulphate am 
its own weight of charcoal into a pasti 
with linseed oil, rolling the paste into tH€ 
shape of a sausage, and placing it upon 
bright fire to incinerate. When it has 
ceald to burn, and is a white hot mas,, 
remove from the fire, cool, .ndpoW* 

The formula is .given with some ie 
serve, for preparations ff^telt 

when the skin begins to burn. 

II. -B*rinmsn.phide.... » 

Soap S5 p ar ts 

Talc. 35 parts 

Starch. ■ y 

Powder the ?olM» »»J £g' 8 
to a part of tins *S ica t&n, anc 

water, at the ^ ^e"l P p«»« the "ft 
with a camel s-hair penc F freed f 



£60 



DEPILATORIES— DIAMOND TESTS 



skin for « ytagj waf off w^a 

fnVHon with the sponge. 

Q?rontium sulphide is an efficient de- 
pilatory A conVenient form of applying 
Sis as follows: 

III. -Strontium sulphide . 2 parts 

Zinc oxide I P ar » 

Powdered starch ... 3 parts 

Mix well and keep in the dry state un- 
til wanted for use, taking then a sufficient 
quantity, forming into a paste with warm 
water and applying to the surface to be 
deprived of hair. Allow to remain from 
I to 5 minutes, according to the nature 
of the hair and skin; it is not advisable 
to continue the application longer, than 
the last named period. Remove m ail 
cases at once when any caustic action is 
felt. After the removal of the paste, 
scrape the skin gently but firmly with a 
blunt-edged blade (a paper knife, for in- 
stance) until the loosened hair is re- 
moved. Then immediately wash the 
denuded surface well with warm water, 
and apply cold cream or some similar 
emollient as a dressing. 

By weight 

IV. — Alcohol 12 parts 

Collodion 35 parts 

Iodine 0.75 parts 

Essence of turpen- 
tine 1.5. parts 

Castor oil % parts 

Apply with a brush on the affected 
parts for 3 or 4 days in thick coats. 
When the collodion plaster thus formed 
is pulled off, the hairs adhere to its inner 
surface. 

V- — Rosin sticks are intended for the 
removal of hairs and are made from colo- 
phony with an admixture of 10 per cent 
of yellow wax. The sticks are heated 
like a stick of scaling wax until soft or 
semi-liquid (142° F.). and lightly applied 
on the place from which the hair is to be 
removed, and the mass is allowed to cool. 
Ihese rosin sticks are said to give good 
satisfaction. 

DEPRESSION GARDEN (Chemical 
Flowers) : 

■ Put several pieces of soft porous coal 

m a dish or bowl then mix 
6 tablespoonfuls of salt 
6 tablespoonfuls of blueing 
6 tablespoonfuls of water 
1 tahlespoonful of ammonia water 

AfLP?£ r thi , s u ove ^ th e Pieces of coal. 
Atter the coal has been wet with the mix- 



1 



ture above, drop on a few drops of 
curochrome solution or a few ft ttter ~ 
green or red ink or any vegctabK ° E 
which is used for coloring; dessp^i ye ' 

Shortly after the materials wY^ 
brought together, a coral like C ol!l 
growth soon begins to appear on t? 
pieces of coal, and this growth increasS 
as the days go by. ,c *bes 

To prevent the growth forming on ft 
edges of the bowl or dish, tub on a litti! 
vaseline and the growth will not extend 
beyond the vaseline. Ammonia water 
can be added to the dish every little 
while to produce more growth, of snow 
crystals. 

"The Depression Garden" looks like 
tiny islands in a lake, covered with ver- 
dure and snow. A few twigs of ever- 
green can be stuck on the lumps of coal, 
they will look like tiny trees and the 
effect is improved. 
DIAMOND TESTS: 

See also Gems and Jewelers' For- 
mulas. 

To Distinguish Genuine Diamonds.— 

If characters or marks of any kind aie 
drawn with an aluminum pencil on glass, 
porcelain, or any substance containing 
silex, the marks cannot be erased by 
rubbing, however energetic the friction, 
and even acids will not cause them to dis- 
appear entirely, unless the surface is en- 
tirely freed from greasy matter, which 
can be accomplished by rubbing with 
whiting and passing a moistened doth 
over the surface at the time of writing. 
So, in order to distinguish the true dia- 
mond from the false, it is necessary only 
to wipe the stone carefully and trace a 
line on it with an aluminum pencil, and 
then rub it briskl v with a moistened clotii. 
If the line continues visible, the stone is 
surely false. If, on the contrary, the stone 
is a true diamond, the line will disappear 
without leaving a trace, and without in- 
jury to the stone. . . .t p 

The common test for recognizing the 
diamond is the file, which does not art - 
though it readily attacks 
There arc other stones not a»ectec j 
the file, but they ^MS^i 
color and other effects by which tnc> 
readily distinguished. G„ m( J\ by 

This test should be ™^™f e J* 
others. From the following «w 
can select the most convenient. ^ f fl 

A piece of glass on which the eog . , 
diamond is drawn, will be cut £ ^ 
much pressure; a slight Dltn ^ n ; m ita- 
cient to separate the glass. ^ g w yl 
tion may scratch the glass, t>ui 
not be cut as with the diamond- 



r 



DIAMOND TESTS— DIGESTIVE POWDERS 



II drop of water is placed upon 
ff* f a diamond and moved about 
t*° faCe Yis of the point of a pin it will 
by 111 its globular form, provided the 
P rese - rlean and dry. If the attempt is 
st °t on "las*, the drop will spread. 
^/ diamond immersed m a glass of 
A be distinctly visible, and will 
T teT clearly through the liquid The 
sbl "V fstone will be confounded with 
iBttl tpr'and will be nearly invisible. 
*B? poking through a diamond with a 
,5 at a black point on a sheet of white 
g a single distinct point will be seen, 
g Si points, or a foggy point will ap- 
oearif the stone is spurious. 
P Hydrofluoric acid dissolves all lmita- 
4 ; n „s but has no effect on true diamonds. 
This' acid is kept in gutta-percha bot- 

'^For an eye practiced in comparisons 
it is not difficult to discern that the facets 
in the cut of a true diamond arc not as 
regular as are those of the imitation; for 
in cutting and polishing the real stone an 
effort is made to preserve the original as 
much as possible, preferring some slight 
irregularities in the planes and edges to 
the loss in the weight, for we all know 
that diamonds are sold by weight. In an 
imitation, however, whether of paste or 
another less valuable stone, there is al- 
ways an abundance of cheap material 
which may be cut away and thereby 
form a perfect-appearing stone. _ 

Take a piece of a fabric, striped red 
and white, and draw the stone to be 
tested over the colors. If it is an imi- 
tation, the colors will be seen through it, 
while a diamond will not allow them to 
be seen. 

A- genuine diamond, rubbed on wood 
or metal, after having been previously 
exposed to the light of the 

^hsch does not occur with imitations. 

Heat the stone to be tested, after giving 
«a coating of borax, and let it fall into 
JJW water. A diamond will undergo 
W -l h ? llf ; % slightest damage; 

s. 

gers to crush 



electric arc, 
in darkness, 



• Glass will be broken in pieces, 
an V n ^ ■ try witn the fing ers to 
tive 10n aEL ^ a S enume diamond be- 
cTfj tWO Coins > ail d you will soon see 



'ereuce. 



tol AMOHD CEMENT: 

see 1 



Adh 



esives, under Jewelers' Ce- 



dents. 

Veterinary Formulas 

S^HEA REMEDIES : 
aee Cholera Remedie; 



m deep-figured dies are vente? to allow 
! 1E iV° ."? a P e ^an the blow S 
struck, it will do much to obtain perfeS 
impressions, and requires only half the 
force that is necessary in unvested dies. 
1ms is not known in many shops anc 
consequently this little air costs much ii 
power and worry. 

POWDERS AND TAB- 



DIGESTIVE 
LETS. 

I, — Sodium bicarbonate. 
Sodium chlorate. . . , 
Calcium carbonate. . 

Pepsin. 5 parts 

Ammonium carbon- 
ate 



S3 parts 
4 parts 
3 parts 



IL 



1 part 

-Sodium bicarbonate. 120 parts 

Sodium chlorate. ... 5 parts 
Sal physiologic (see 

below) 4 parts 

Magnesium carbon- 
ate 10 parts 



III, 



Pepsin, saccharated 

(U. S. P.).. 10 drachms 

Pancreatin 10 drachms 

Diastase 50 drachms 

Acid, lactic 40 drops 

Sugar of milk 40 drachms 

IV.— Pancreatin 3 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate. 15 parts 
Milk sugar 2 parts 

Sal Physiologieum.-The ^m^|g 
this ingredient, the so-called nutritive 
salt (Nahrsals), is as follows: 
Calcium phosphate. 40 
Potassium sulphate. 
Sodium phosphate. . 
Sulphuric, precipita- 
ted ■ 

Sodium chlorate. 
Magnesium phos- 

phate y 

Carlsbad salts, arti- ^ 

10 

Silicic acid <z$ 
Calcium fluoride 



2 

5 
60 



parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 

parts 



parts 
parts 



Digestive Tablets.— 
Powdered double re- 

fined sngar. . rta 

Subnitrate bismu h ^ 

Saccharated pepsm ^ 

pancreatin g5 p ar ta 

Mucilage ■ ' 30 p ar ta 



Mix a 




G n n d 8 dividei..to S uit»blesi^ 



DIOGEN DEVELOPER — DISINFECTANTS 



DIOGEIT DEVELOPER : 

Sec Photography, 

£>IP FOR BRASS: 

See Plating and Brass. 

PIPS: 

See Metals. 

DIPS FOR CATTLE: 

See Disinfectants and Veterinary For- 
mlas. 

)ISH WASHING: 

See Household Formulas 



Disinfectants 

Disinfecting Fluids. — 

I. — Creosote 40 gallons 

Rosin, powdered.. . 56 pounds 
Caustic soda lye,3S° 

Tw . . 9 gallons 

Boiling water 12 gallons 

Methylated spirit. . 1 gallon 

Black treacle 14 pounds 

Melt the rosin and add the creosote; 
run in the lyes; then add the matter and 
methylated spirit mixed together, and 
add the treacle; boil all till dissolved and 
mix well together, 

II. — Hotwater 120 pounds 

Caustic soda lye, 38° 

B 120 pounds 

Rosin 300 pounds 

Creosote 450 pounds 

Boil together the water, lye, and rosin, 
till dissolved; turn off steam and stir in 
the creosote; keep on steam to nearly 
boiling all the time, but so as not to boil 
over, until thoroughly incorporated. 

IH. — Fresh - made soap 

Chard yellow) .... 7 

Gas tar 21 

Water, with 2 pounds 

soda 21 

^ Dissolve soap (cut in fine 
in the gas tar; then pdd slowly the soda 
and water which has been dissolved. 

IV.— Rosin i 

Caustic soda lye, 18° 

Black tar oil 

Nitro-naphthalene 
dissolved in boil- 
ing water (about 

* gallon) 2 pounds 

Melt the rosin, add the caustic lye; 
then stir ,n the tar oil and add the nit'ro- 
naphthalene. 



pounds 
pounds 

pounds 
shavings) 



cwt. 



16 gallons 
\ gallon 



-Camphor \ 

Carbolic acid (75 
per cent) , , j% 



ounce 
ounces 



Aqua ammonia 10 rlm^u* 

Soft salt water 8 d^hS 



To be diluted when required fo r 



use 



VL— Heavy tar oil ..... ]0 gallon3 
Caustic soda dis- 
solved in 5 gallons 

water 000° 1? 30 pounds 

Mix the soda lyes with the oil, and heat 
the mixture gently with constant stir 
ring; add, when just on the boil, 20 
pounds of refuse fat or tallow and 20 
pounds of soft soap; continue the heat 
until thoroughly saponified, and add 
water gradually to make up 40 gallons. 
Let it settle; then decant the clear liquid! 

Disinfecting Fluids or Weed-Killers.— 
I. — Cold water, 20 gallons; powdered 
rosin, 56 pounds; creosote oil, 40 gallons; 
sulphuric acid, * gallon; caustic soda lye' 
30° B., 0 gallons. 

Heat water and dissolve the rosin; 
then add creosote and boil to a brown 
mass and shut off steam; next run in 
sulphuric acid and then the lyes. 

II. — Water 40 gallons 

Powdered black 

rosin 56 pounds 

Sulphuric acid %\ gallons 

Creosote 10 gallons 

Melted pitch 24 pounds 

Pearlash boiled in 

10 gallons water,. 56 pounds 

Boil water and dissolve rosin and acid; 
then add creosote and boil well again; 
add pitch and run in pearlash solution 
(boiling); then shut off steam. 

III. (White).— Water, 40 _ gallons; 
turpentine, 2 gallons; ammonia, \ gal- 
lon; carbolic crystals, 14 pounds; caustic 
lyes, 2 gallons; white sugar, 60 pounds, 
dissolved in 40 pounds water. 

Heat water to boiling, and add first 
turpentine, next ammonia, and then car- 
bolic crystals. Stir well until thoroughly 
dissolved, and add lyes and sugar solu- 
tion. 



DISINFECTING POWDERS. 



-Sul phate of iron . . . 
Sulphate of zinc. . . 
O a k ba r k , powder. 

Tar 

Oil, 



100 parts 
50 parts 
40 parts 
5 parts 
5 parts 



II.— Mix together chloride of I> m< - a "* 
burnt umber, add water, and set onpJaw , 



DISINFECTANTS 



£63 



plue Sanitary Powder.- 

-Powdered alum.. . . . 2 pounds 
Oil of eucalyptus. . . 12 ounces 
Rectified spa-its of 

j ar o ounces 

Ratified spirit of 

turpentine 2 ounces 

Ultra marine blue 

(common). f ounces 

Common salt 14 pounds 

m a i um with about 8 pounds of salt 
■ Thr^e mortar, gradually add oil of 

U,ralvptu s and s P in " tS ' , tllC , n put "? - llC 
.Hrainarine blue, and lastly remaining 

salt mixing all well, and passing through 
a sieve- 

Carbolic Powder. (Strong).— Slaked 
lime in fine powder, 1 cwt.; carbolic acid, 
f 5 per cent, 2 gallons. 

Color with aniline dye and then pass 
through a moderately fine sieve and put 
into tins or casks and keep air-tight. 

Pink Carbolized Sanitary Powder. — 

Powdered alum 6 ounces 

Powdered green cop- 
peras 5 pounds 

Powdered red lead. . 5 pounds 
Calvert's No. 5 car- 
bolic acid 12* pounds 

Spirit of turpentine. l| pounds 

Calais sand 30 pounds 

Slaked lime. ....... GO pounds 

Mix carbolic acid with turpentine and 
sand, then add the other ingredients, 
lastly the slaked lime and, after mixing, 
pass through a sieve. It is advisable to 
use lime that has been slaked some time. 

DISINFECTANT SOLUTIONS 
FOR HOUSEHOLD USE: 

Camphor Gum 4 ounces 

Alcohol 10 ounces fl. 

Water 10 ounces fl. 

Calcium hypo- 
chlorite 10 ounces 

Oil cloves 2 drams 

Eucalyptol 2 drams 

alPw* ^ lne ca mphor and dissolve in the 
jcohol, then add the euealyptol and oil 
U es ' Tll is solution should be cold. 
cl *lorite S ° 1Ve ' n lt the calcium n >T°~ 

few drops of this fluid on a piece of 
a ™ hung in the room, is enough. 



1 e !i° rarits for Water-Closets.— 

'^-Ferric chloride 4 parts 

Ai nc ^oride 5 parts 

Aluminum chloride. 5 parts 



4 parts 
3 parts 



rose- 
about 



parts 



Calcium chloride. 
Magnesmm chloride! 
Water sufficient to 

make gQ ^ 

mary previously dissolved in 
quarts of alcohol, and filter. 
II. — Sulphuric acid 

* um i n e ! oo 

1 otassium per in an - 

w «f nate 45 parts 

. Water 4,200 parts 

Dissolve the permanganate in the 
water, and add under the acid. This i« 
said to be a most powerful disinfectant* 
deodorizer, and germicide. It shou 
not be used where there are metal trii 
mings. 

Form.aldeh.yde for Disinfecting ' 

Papers, etc.— The property of formL 
dehyde of penetrating all kinds of paper 
even when folded together in severs 
layers, may be utilized for a perfect dis 
infection of books and letters, especially 
at a temperature of 8G° to 122° F. in 
closed room. The degree of penetrs 
lion as well as the disinfecting power 
the formaldehyde depend upen 13 
method of generating the gas. Lett ( 

Jjaper in closed envelopes, are complete 
y disinfected only in 12 hours, lecks 
24 hours at a temperature of 122° 
when 70 cubic centimeters cf form( 
chloral— 17.5 g. of gas— per cubic mete 
of space are used. Books must be stoc 
up m such a manner that the gas c 
enter from the sides. Bacilli of iyphf 
preserve their vitality longer upon i 
sized paper and on filtering paper U 
on other varieties. . . 

There is much difference cf cpmioi 
as to the disinfecting and dcodomir- 
power of formaldehyde when used 
disinfect wooden tierces. While jom« 
have found it to answer 
have cot variable reau ts, or failed oi 
succesi The explanation seems to be 
SatThose who fve obtaincc poor re 
suits have not allowed time tor t ^ 



the 
once 



wrong. The solution is 

tierce! which £ ^latiliaed b 

whereby the aldehyde is 
fore it ba* fa ad tim« to do « d 
th e formal .^^J^^ used 
would carry 



used in 
the steam 



the dis 



being 

get her, tine bl C «" of jhe woot 

hyde more time. 



DISINFECTANTS 



Another point to be remembered in all 
Pas ts of dismfection by Formaldehyde is 
tfaafa mechanical cleansing, must pre- 
cede the action of the antiseptic. If 
S JZ thick deposits of organic mat- 
^ which can be easily dislodged with a 
tubbing brush, they can only be dis- 
infected % the use of large quantxties 
3 formaldehyde used during a long period 
of time. 
General Disinfectants.— 

I. — Alum 10 ounces 

Sodium carbonate. . 10 ounces 
Ammonium chloride % ounces 

Zinc chloride 1 ounce 

Sodium chloride .... 2 ounces 
Hydrochloric acid, quantity suffi- 
cient. 

Water to make 1 gallon. 
Dissolve the alum in one half gallon 
of boiling water, and add the sodium 
carbonate; then add hydrochloric acid 
until the precipitate formed is dissolved. 
Dissolve the other salt in water and add 
to the previous solution. Finally add 
enough water to make the whole measure 
1 gallon, and filter. 

In use, this is diluted with 7 parts of 
water. 

II. — For the Sick Room. — In using 
this ventilate frequently : Guaiac, 10 parts; 
eucalyptol, 8 parts; phenol, 6 parts; men- 
thol, 4 parts; thymol, % parts; oil of 
cloves, 1 part; alcohol of 90 per cent, 
170 parts. 

Atomizer Liquid for Sick Rooms. — 

III.— Eucalyptol 10^ 

Thyme oil 5 

Lemon oil 5 

Lavender oil 5 

Spirit, 90 per cent. . . 110, 

To a pint of water a teaspoonful for 
evaporation. 

Non-Poisonous Sheep Dips. — Paste.— 

L — Creosote (containing 
15 per cent to 20 
per cent of car- 
bolic acid) 2 parts 

Stearine or Yorkshire 

grease 1 part 

Caustic soda lyes, 
specific gravity, 

1340 1 part 

Black rosm, 5 per cent to 10 per 
cent. 

Melt the rosin and add grease and soda 
»yes, and then add creosote cold. 

II.— Creosote i par t 

^rude hard rosin oil 1 part 
Put rosin oil in copper and heat to 



Parts 
by 

weight. 



about £20° F., and add as mud, n 
soda powder, 98 per cent strcn^n, Ustle 
oil will take up. The quantity h' the 
upon the amount of acetic aci 1 M 8 
oil. If too much soda is adnV^ \ tlle 
remain at the bottom. When H, WlU 
oil has taken up the soda add Te^T 
and let it stand. creosote^ 

Odorless Disinfectants. 

I- — Ferric chloride 4 parts 

Zinc chloride 5 part' 

Aluminum chloride. 5 parts 
Calcium chloride ... 4 p arts 
Manganese chloride 3 parts 

Water 69 parts 

If desired, 10 grains thymol and % 
fluidrachms oil of rosemary, previously 
dissolved in about 12 fluidrachms of al- 
cohol, may be added to each gallon. 

II.— Alum 10 parts 

Sodium carbonate . . 10 parts 
Ammonium chloride 2 parts 
Sodium chloride. ... 2 parts 

Zinc chloride 1 part 

Hydrochloric acid, sufficient. 
Water 100 parts 

Dissolve the alum in about 50 parts 
boiling water and add the sodium car- 
bonate. The resulting precipitate of 
aluminum hydrate dissolve with the aid 
of just sufficient hydrochloric acid, and 
add the other ingredients previously dis- 
solved in the remainder of the water. 

III. — Mercuric chloride. . . 1 part 
Cupric sulphate .... 10 parts 

Zinc sulphate 50 parts 

Sodium chloride 65 parts 

Water to make 1,000 parts. 
Paris Salts.— The disinfectant known 

by this name is a mixture made from the 

following recipe: 

/<mc sul phate 49 parts 

Ammonia alum 49 parts 

Potash permanga- 
nate I P art 

Lime 1 P art 

The ingredients are fused together, 

mixed with a little calcium chloriae, 

and perfumed with thymol. 

Piatt's Chlorides.— 

I. — Aluminum sulphate. 6 ounces 

Zinc chloride. H olin g 

Sodium chloride. ... ® ° un „ na 
Calcium chloride. .. 8 oun .f S 
Water enough to make 2 pm ls - 

II. — A more elaborate formula for * 
preparation said to resemble the pr°P 
tary article is as follows: 



DISINFECTANTS — DOSES 



ounces 
ounces 
ounce 

ice 
1 i ounces 
| ounce 
16 ounces 
]G ounces 



7inc, in strips 4> 

fead carbonate...- % 

Sagnesiu- carbon- ^ ^ 

A lumin'umhydratc. 
potassium hydrate. 
Hydrochloric acid . 

Water . - ■ ■ 

Whiting, enough 

„, r _ i-Ue ?J inc m the acid; then add 
DlS f <n Its s nglv in the order named, 
the - 0th ^, 1 di scflve before the next is 
l^ng e«* aU ape disso l V ed add the 
3 , ? to the solution, and after a couple 
M oi. is add a little whiting to neutralize 
It e" ess of acid; then filter 
B % nc chloride ranks very low among 
disiXctants, and the use of such solu- 
S as these, by giving a false sense of 
curityfrom disease germs, may be the 
SSu of spreading rather than of check- 
ing the spread of sickness. 

Disinfecting Coating.— Carbolic acid, 
2 parts; manganese, 3 parts; calcium 
chloride, 2 parts; china clay, 10 parts; 
infusorial earth, 4 parts ; dextrin, 2 
parts ; and water, 10 parts. 

DISTEMPER IN CATTLE: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

DOG "NUISANCE": 

A solution made by dissolving lVg tea- 
spoonfuls of "black leaf 40" in a gallon 
of water and sprayed on bushes and 
trees is a simple method of preventing 
dogs from detroying small evergreens 
and shrubs. 

DOG- BISCUIT, 

The waste portions of meat and tallow, 
including the skin and fiber, have for 
years been imported from South Ameri- 
can tallow factories in the form of blocks, 
f S } of ^ e do S bread consists principally 
. * nese remnants, chopped and mixed 
rj Jour. They contain a good deal of 
tm nhrous tissue, and a large percent- 
saH ° J l**' hui are Peking in nutritive 
do \ must be added to make good 
°8 bread, just as in the case of the meat 
fa* I ? lacIe from tne waste of meat ex- 
mal, • ories - T he flesh of dead ani- 
Wu not nsed by any reputable mann- 
«ark r f' for reason that it gives a 
atlt j° to fc h e dough, has an unpleas- 
^Oidriu' ^ not properly sterilized 
diet ln iurious to dogs as a steady 

a »^ e *ui flour ' c °ntaining as little bran 
o c Kj- e > 13 generally used, oats, rye, 
uaian meal being only mixed in to 



265 



flour would gW' e a"io^ e ur eSS "u? 7 . e 
dries slowly £j th \ S^ld^ 

after baking & 1 SP T al pr ° Cess ° f ^Eg 
alter baking, else thev wonlrl n, n uiJ 



™™i "fv? g S else J they Woula m °ld a 
spoil. Dog bread must b 

good wheat flour, of 



)e made from 



o--- ""Y"* ui a medium sort 

mixed with 15 or 16 per cent of sw ?et dry 
chopped meat, Well baked and dried like 
pilot bread or crackers. This is the rule 
for all the standard dog bread on the 
market. there are admixtures which 
affect more or less its nutritive value, 
such as salt, vegetables, chopped bones, 
or bone meal, phosphate of lime, and 
other nutritive salts. In preparing th< 
dough and in baking, care must be takei 
to keep it light and porous. 

DOG DISEASES AND THEIR REME- 
^ DIES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

DOG SOAP: 

See Soap. 

DONARITE: 

See Explosives. 

DOORS, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and 
ods. 

DOSES FOR ADULTS AND CHILDREI 

The usual method pursued by mec 
men in calculating the doses of medicu 
for children is to average the dose 
proportion to their approximate weig 
or to figure out a dose upon the assumi 
tion thlt at 12 years of age half of a 
adult dose will he, about nght ^ict 
fated on this basis the doses for th< 
under 12 will be in direct Proportion 

or A of an adult dose. ^ tne £ " 
M ylars old it should get * £™ 
dividing 2, or + of an adult ; dose. £ 
of 3 yeaxs should f^ ^se A chn 
dividing 3, or * of an adtu ^ 
of 4 should get 4jl« s l 
4,oriofanadu tdo 5 e adllIts var 3 



A/ both cha^^^e 
materially in whe ° ° xima te we.gt 
the calculation by a .ppro Taking t 
If the more accurate^ way^ lfi<) ... 



ght 



weight of the average h tevt 

theS a boy, ™J'°f y 75 pounds^ 
the age, *f of an adult d < 



DOSE TABLE— DYES 



. „ij be double that of the aver- 
fcssue, should bed o ^ mere 

SoftieM condition of the 

tnHv such a calculation would be entire- 
body, sucn a the ca i culatl0n 

to SS as nearly a, possible to the 
amount °f dilution the dose undergoes m 
K blood or in the intestinal contents of 
the patient. Each volume of blood shou d 
riefve exactly the same dose in order to 
give the same results, other conditions 
being equal. 

OOSE TABLE FOR VETERINARY 
PURPOSES : 
See Veterinary Formulas. 

DRAWINGS, PRESERVATION OF. 

Working designs and sketches are eas- 
ily soiled and rendered unsuitable for 
further use. This can be easdy avoided 
by coating them with collodion, to which 
24 per cent of stean'ne from a good stearine 
candle has been added. Lay the drawing 
on a glass plate or a board, and pour on 
the collodion, as the photographer treats 
his plates. After 10 or 20 minutes the 
design will be dry and perfectly white, 
possessing a dull luster, and being so well 
protected that it may be washed off with 
water without fear of spoiling it. 

DOUCHE POWDER FOR 
WOMEN: 

Lysol 12 drops 

Menthol 12 grains 

Boric acid i ounce 

Powdered potassium 

permanganate 12 grains 

Sodium bicarbonate, 
a quantity sufficient 

to make 6 ounces 

Powder the menthol and mix all in- 
gredients well together. Use two ounces 
of above powder to a quart of water. 

DUTCH CLEANER: 

Infusorial earth 
Soda ash 

Equal parts of both, mixed together. 

DUST LAYING POWDER- 

^ dusL • 36 ounces 

S flt ,, t( ,, V ■ • : 4 ounces 

Saturated solution of 

magnesium chloride 72 ounces 

Mix, heat and grind to powder. 

dus clo?!!7 enters AND 

See Household Formulas. 



Dyes 



In accordance with the 
of dyers, many of the follow?^* 1 ? 11 * 
describe dyes for large Q Uan 8 t :f- ec, P* 
goods, but to make them eqK , & 
for the use of private faSe/^N 
usually given in even quantities «5i* e 
it is an easy matter to ascertain th 1 
thy of materials required for dvein C|U L an " 
once the weight of the goodfis L e * 
the quantity of materials used beiS?' 

Employ soft water for all dyeing Mr 
poses, if it can be procured, using 4*5? 
Ions water to 1 pound of goods; f or l a S£ 
quantities a little less water will do d 
all the implements used in dyeing be ken 
perfectly clean. Prepare the goods bv 
scouring well with soap and water wash" 
mg out the soap well, and dipping in warm 
water, before immersion in the dye or 
mordant. Goods should he well aired, 
rinsed, and properly hun^ up after dye- 
ing. Silks and fine goods should be ten- 
derly handled, otherwise injury to the 
fabric will result. 

Aniline Black. — Water, 20 to 30 parts; 
chlorate of potassa, 1 part; sal ammo- 
niac, 1 part; chloride of copper, 1 part; 
aniline and hydrochloric acid, each 1 part, 
previously mixed together. It is essen- 
tial that the preparation should be acid, 
and the more acid it is the more rapid 
will be the production of the blacks; ii 
too much so, it may injure the fabric. 
The fabric or yarn is dried in agnng 
rooms at a low temperature for 24 hours, 
and washed afterwards. 

Black on Cotton.— For 40 pounds 
goods, use sumac, 30 pounds; boil J ot an 
hour; let the goods steep overnight, anci 
immerse them in Iimewater, 40 minutes, 
remove, and allow them to drip f ot an 
hour; add copperas, 4 pounds, to thesurnai. 
liquor, and dip 1 hour more; next wons 
them through Iimewater for 20 smites, 
then make a new dye of l«g w0 /7 th€ 
pounds, boil 2* hours, and enter ^ 



e 

te of 



goods 3 hours; then add bichromate .J 
potash, 1 pound, to the new dye, ana r 
1 hour more. Work in clean cold w»te 
and dry out of the sun. 

Black Straw Hat Varnish. U- 
cohol, 4 ounces; pulverized Dia«£ an(J 
ing wax, 1 ounce. Place m a pn - Tlio g 
put the phial into a warm Pjfgr ffBX is 
or shaking occasionally until before 
dissolved. Apply it when warm § 
the fire or in the sun. •*■ 
beautiful gloss. 



■ 



DYES 



Black for Wool. — For 40 
W? m lf (roods, use blue vitriol S 
pound 5 ° ■ s short time, then dip the 
&> utlds; fabric | of an hour, airing f re- 
tool or Id T . lke ou t the goods, and make 
fluent.., wwood, 24 pounds; boil \ 
t dy e 1 0 f an hour, air the goods, and 
t^T^n hour longer; then wash in 
<Jip * 0 soa p S uds. A good fast color. 



strong 



3 pounds of wool, take bichromate 
For ?fh 1 pound, 4 ounces; ground 
° f Pf^ '^Tipes: boil together and put 



on Wool, for Mixtures. — 



'„,] 15 ounces; _ 
S$U fabric, stirring well, 
Sain in the dye 5 hours, 
rinse s 



and let it re- 
Take it out, 



liffbtlv in dean water, then make a 
"«"rTve into which put logwood, H 
"'Ids Boil 11 hours, adding cbam- 
fr Ive 5 pints. Let the fabric remain 
in all night, and wash out in clean water. 

Bismarck Brown.— Mix together 1 
nound Bismarck, 5 gallons water, and 
f pound sulphuric acid. This paste 
dissolves easily in hot water and may be 
used directly for dyeing. A liquid dye 
may be prepared by making the bulk 01 
the above mixture to 2 gallons with alco- 
hol. To dye, sour with sulphuric acid; 
add a quantity of sulphate of soda, im- 
merse liie wool, and add the color by 
small portions, keeping the temperature 
under 212° F. Very interesting shades 
maybe developed by combining the color 
with indigo paste or picric acid. 



alu 



26, 



amaranth tmt. A cinnamon tint is ob- 

dant of alum, 
bath of fustic, 



tained by first givin g T m Trdan7of aC 
next a madder 'bath, then a bath D f 2 

Idled 3 6 gteen C ° Pperas h ""2S 



Chestnut Brown for Straw Bonnets. — 

Pot 25 bats, use ground sanders, 
pounds; ground curcuma, £ pounds; 
powdered gallnuts or sumac, § pound; 
rasped logwood, tH> pound. Boil to- 
gether with the hats in a large kettle (so 
as not to crowd), for 2 hours, then with- 
draw the hats, rinse, and let them re- 
over night in a bath of nitrate of 
* "e., when they are washed. A darker 
b ""0Tvnmay be obtained by increasing the 
quantity of sanders. To give the hats 

IE ,** 1 luster * the y are brushed with 
Crush of couchgrass, when dry. 

^^mon or Brown for Cotton, and 
bom T B tne goods as much color, 
to « t solution °f blue vitriol, 2 ounces, 
in J ■ * 1 gallon, as they will take up 
tC, W 15 minutes; then turn them 
1 mewater - This will make a 
WEk - sky blue of much durability. 
"W n ( d next be mn through a 
to ^ater°i P ™ ssiate of P°tash, 1 ounce, 

ij n D ye tor Cotton or Linen.— Give 
eci; s a mixed mordant o£ acetate of 



Brown for Silk.._Dl M ol TC anoatto, 
1 pound; pearlash, 4 pounds, in boiline 
water, and pass the silk through it for 1 
hours; then take it out, squeeze well 
and dry. Next give it a mordant of 
alum, and pass through a bath of bra- 
zil wood, and afterwards through a bath 
of logwood, to which a little green cop- 
peras has been added; wring it out and 
dry; afterwards rinse well. 

Brown Dye for Wool— This may b 
induced by a decoction of oak bark, with 
variety of shade according to the quan- 
tity employed. If the goods be fir 
passed through a mordant of alum the 
color will be brightened. 

Brown for Cotton. — Catechu or ter 
japonica gives cotton a brown color 
blue vitriol turns it to the bronze; green 
copperas darkens it, when applied as a 
mordant and the stuff is boiled in the 
bath. Acetate of alumina as a mordant 
brightens it. The French color Car- 
melite is given with catechu, 1 pound; 
verdigris, 4 ounces; and sal ammoniac, 
5 ounces. 

Dark Snuff Brown for Wool.— For 5 
pounds of goods, take camwood 1 
pounds, boil for 20 minutes then dip tb 
ods for f of an hour; take them ou 
and add to the dye, fustic, _W poujd^ 



a ari d acetate of iron, and then 



Td add to ttedye. fustic » pouud 
boil IB minutes, apd dig the good 



an 



hourrthen add blue *««W»™£3 



conneras, £ pounds, 8 ounces ; — r „ . . 
Jnutes. Add more copperas if the 
shade is required darker. 

Brown for Wool and 
or decoction of walnut P^^tight- 



and silk a brown 
ened by alum 



m 

sugar 



PouLTrreddish brown 

Alkali Blue and JoSSn. 

Dissolve 1 P° un * °!K **** * v SIDa11 
-a water, and adC 
to the dye bath 



tions 



, e 1 P OUKU ," A j j this bv small por- 
boiling water a nd add th.s by ^ 
S the dye bath, wn fabr?c 
rendered alkaline by fa orax. 
should be well ffOfke fl The t em- 

each addition of the co,O nde p 



DYES 



and pass through a bath containing 
sulphuric acid- 

Aniline Blue.-To 100 pounds of fabric, 
HislolST U Pounds aniline blue m 3 
*„„JhotLJbhoJ strain f - ugh a filter 
»nd add it to a bath of 130 • > a,so ™ 
Sounds Glauber's salts, and 5 pounds 
l^Sc acid. Immerse the goods and 
handle them well for 20 minutes. Next 
heat slowly to 200° F.; then add 5 
SoSnds sulphuric acid diluted with water. 
Ltthe whole boil 20 minutes longer; 
then rinse and dry. If the aniline be 
added in 2 or 3 proportions during the 
process of coloring, it will facilitate the 
evenness of the color. 

Blue on Cotton.— For 40 pounds of 
goods, uae copperas, 2 pounds; boil and 
dip 20 minutes; dip in soapsuds, and 
return to the dye 3 or 4 times; then 
make a new bath with prussiate of pot- 
ash, \ pound; oil of vitriol, 1\ pints; 
boil $ hour, rinse out and dry. 

Sky Blue on Cotton. — For 60 pounds 
of goods, hlue vitriol, 5 pounds. Boil a 
short time, then enter the goods, dip 3 
hours, and transfer to a bath of strong 
limewater. A fine brown color will be 
imparted to the goods if they are then 
put through a solution of prussiate of 
potash. 

Blue Dye for Hosiery. — One hundred 
pounds of wool are colored with 4 pounds 
Guatemala or 3 pounds Bengal indigo, 
in the soda or wood vat. Then boil in 
a kettle a few minutes, 5 pounds of cud- 
bear or 8 pounds of archil paste; add 1 
pound of soda, or, better, 1 pail of urine; 
then cool the dye to about 170° F. and 
enter the wool. Handle well for about 
20 minutes, then take it out, cool, rinse, 
and dry. It makes no difference 
whether the cudbear is put in before or 
after the indigo. Three ounces of ani- 
line purple dissolved in alcohol, i pint, 
can be used instead of the cudbear. 
Wood spirit is cheaper than alcohol, and 
is much used by dyers for the purpose of 
'dissolving aniline colors. It produces a 
very pretty shade, but should never be 
used on mixed goods which have to be 
bleached. 

fo D fV^? lue £ ye — This d 7 e is suitable 
„f X t i ts - and las tings. Boil 1 00 pounds 
of the f abric for 1* hours in a solution of 
Snn?* S P° unds '> tartar, 4 pounds; mor- 
aant 6 pounds; extract of indigo, 6 
pound cool as usual. Boil inVesh 
in ?L J° m S J° 10 - P ° unds of ^gwood, 

o 170* ST 0t £ e T is u e ' then COQl dye 
to 170 F. Reel the Eabric quickly at 



first, then let it boil strong t nr , , 
This is a very good imitation of Mr- 
blue. Ul ^uigo 



Saxon Blue.— For 100 pound, t\i 
■ comb yarn, use alum m n et 
cream of tartar, 3 pounds- Tr,Ji? Uruls ; 
pounds; extract of indigo,% p^!' 2 



puimus; exLracr oi indigo, 3 pound* ' 
carmine, 1 pound, makes a hetu, ; 0r 
When all is dissolved, cool the L 
180° F.; enter and ffl^J^ 
first then let the fabric boil Thol * 



Zephyr worsted yarn ought to be p 
pared, first by hoihng it in a soh] |f 
of alum and sulphuric acid; the indi eo 



10U 



Logwood and Indigo Blue.— For it 
pounds of cloth. Color the cloth first by 
one or two dips in the vat of indigo blue 
and rinse it well, and then boil it in { 
solution of 20 pounds of alum, 2 pound 
of half-refined tartar, and 5 pounds o. 
mordant, for 2 hours ; finally take it out anc 
cool. In fresh water boil 10 pounds o: 
good logwood for half an hour in a bas 
or otherwise; cool off to 170° F. befon 
entering. Handle well over a reel, let it 
boil for half an hour; then take it out, 
cool and rinse. This is a very firm 
blue. 

Blue Purple for Silk. — For 40 pounds 
of goods, take bichromate of potash, 8 
ounces; alum, 1 pound; dissolve all and 
bring the water to a boil, and put in the 
goods; boil 1 hour. Then empty the 
dye, and make a new dye with logwood, 
8 pounds, or extract of logwood, 1 pound 
4 ounces, and boil in this 1 hour longer. 
Grade the color by using more or less 
logwood, as dark or light color is wanted. 

Blue Purple for Wool.— One hundred 
pounds of wool are first dipped in ue 
&ue vat to a light shade, then boiled in 
a solution of 15 pounds of alum ana J 
pounds of half- refined tartar, tor S 
tours, the wool taken out, cooled ana 
let stand 24 hours. Then boll in .W\ 
water 8 pounds of powdered cociirn^ 
for a few minutes, cool the Jcetw> 
F. Handle the prepared wool 
for 1 hour, when it is ready to cooi 
and dry. By coloring first wiw ^ 
neal, as aforesaid, and , fill,slll V"hlia, so 
blue vat, the fast purple or a* 
much admired in German broa ^ 
will be produced. Tw »« ds mU 
be used m this color. 

To Make Extract of Iadi f° ti f into 
Take of vitriol, 3 pounds, ant - s{ 
finely pulverized indigo, 8 f» r; th 
ring briskly for the first half kou 



DYES 



269 



and stir 4 or 5 times daily 
cover «P' ,J s< Add a little pulverized 
or a it up, and keep adding at 

ct a& S l it foams; it will neutralize the 
fiS l^eep it closely corked. 

fl 7 ht silver Drab. -For 50 pounds of 
l f ,sc ogwood, * pound; alum, about 
^ 00d ime f quantity; boil well, enter the 
tbe sfti»e q thgm for a bour . Grade 
goods, ana desire( J shade by using 

rRAY DYES : 
G SUtte Dye for 



^ttVacupfufof logwood Ha, 
* »v strong, and a piece of pear ash 
f" f ? U ; take gray-colored goods 
S3 lldle a little in this liquid and it is 
finished If too much logwood is used, 
the color will be too dark. 

Slate for Straw Hats.— First, soak in 
rather strong warm suds for 15 minutes 
to remove sizing or stiffening; then rinse 
in warm water to get out the soap 
Scald cudbear, 1 ounce, m sufficient 
water to cover the hat; work it m this 
dye at 180° F., until a light purple is 
obtained. Have a vessel of cold water, 
blued with the extract of indigo, \ ounce, 
and work or stir the bonnet m this until 
the tint pleases. Dry, then rinse out 
with cold water, and dry again in the 
shade. If the purple is too deep in shade 
the final slate will be too dark. 

Silver Gray for Straw.— For 35 hats, 
select the whitest hats and soften them 
in a bath of crystallized soda to which 
some clean limewater has been added. 
Boil for 2 hours in a large vessel, using 
for a bath a decoction of the follow- 
ing: Alum, 4 pounds; tartaric acid, \ 
Pound; some ammoniacal cochineal, 
a-nd carmine of indigo. A little sulphuric 
acid may be necessary in order to neu- 
ptoe the alkali of the cochineal dye. If 
I t r^'^ntioned ingredients are used, 
it v -K ats rem »m for an hour longer in 



of warm 



water and 
uor, 
the 



-- j- LLLciiLi njr tin ii u ui lunger m 
e boiling bath, then rinse in slightly 
acidulated water. 

Dark Steel.— Mix black and white 
*>ol ' together in the proportion of 50 
Pounds of black wool to 7% pounds of 
Wrfk lar S e or small quantities, 

JnllB , sam e proportion, mixing care- 
Il % and thoroughly. 

0l ^ U ^ e Gr een for Silk.— Iodine green 
^ater -P green dissolves easily in warm 
disani j or a liquid dye 1 pound may be 
U8st >lved m 1 gallon alcohol, and mixed 



Aniline Green for Wool. -Prepare Mo 
baths, one containing the di sso fved dye 
and a quantity of carbonate of soda or 
borax. In this the wool is placed? and 
tne temperature raised to 212° p a. 
grayish green is produced, which must 
be brightened" and fixed in a second bath 
of water 100° F., to which some acetic 
acid has been added. Cotton requires 
preparation by sumac. 

Green for Cotton.— For 40 pounds of 
goods, use fustic, 10 pounds; blue vitriol, 
10 ounces; soft soap, 2^ quarts; and log- 
wood chips, 1 pound 4 ounces. Soak 
the logwood overnight in a brass vessel, 
and put it on the fire in the morning, 
adding the other ingredients. When 
quite hot it is ready for dyeing; enter the 
goods at once, and handle well. Differ- 
ent shades may be obtained by letting 
part of the goods remain longer in the 
dye. 

Green for Silk. — Boil green ebony in 
water, and let it settle. Take the clear 
liquor as hot as the hands can bear, and 
handle the goods in it until of a bright 
yellow. Take water and put in a little 
sulphate of indigo; handle goods in this 
till of the shade desired. The ebony may 
previously be boiled in a bag to prevent 
ft from sticking to the silk. 

Green for Wool and Silk. -Take equal 
quantities of yellow oak and hickory 
bark, make a strong yellow bath by 
boiling, and shade to the desired tint by 
adding a small quantity of extract of 

chips and add extract of md^ ^ ^ 
quantities at a time, uu* 
satisfactory. 

PURPLE ^ ™^^dd*> 
Aniline Violet and Purple. ^ 

the bath by su phunc ac d ^ 

phate of soda : bog t ul2 c F 

render the shade ^«J ade { 0 10 pounds 
To eive a fair middle s u , j equa l to 
oY^ool, a quantity of * ft£ v mW 

^ SUlph ~ 40 pounds of goods, use 



Purple. 




270 



DYES 



alum, 3 pounds; muriate of tin, 4 tea- 
cups; pulverized cochineal, 1 pound; 
cream of tartar, 2 pounds. Boil the 
alum, tin, and cream* of tartar for £0 
minutes, add the cochineal and boil 5 
minutes; immerse the goods 2 hours; re- 
move and enter them in a new dye com- 
posed of brazil wood, 8 pounds; log- 
wood, 7 pounds; alum, 4 pounds, and 
muriate of tin, 8 cupfuls, adding a little 
extract of indigo. 

Purple for Cotton. — Get up a tub of 
hot logwood liquor, enter 3 pieces, give 
them 5 ends, and hedge out. Enter 
them in a clean alum tub, give them 5 
ends, and hedge out. Get up_ another 
tub of logwood liquor, enter, give them 
5 ends, and hedge out; renew the alum 
tub, give 5 ends in that, and finish. 

Purple for Silk.— For 10 pounds of 
goods, enter the goods in a blue dye bath, 
and secure a light-blue color, dry, and 
dip in a warm solution containing alum, 
2| pounds. Should a deeper color be 
required, add a little extract of indigo. 

Solferino and Magenta for "Woolen, 
Silk, or Cotton. — For 1 pound of woolen 
goods, magenta shade, 90 grains, apothe- 
caries' weight, of aniline red, will be re- 
quired. Dissolve in a little warm alco- 
hol, using, say, G fluidounces, or about 6 

Sills alcohol per ounce of aniline. Many 
yers use wood spirits because of its 
cheapness. For a solferino shade, use 
64 grains aniline red, and dissolve in 4 
ounces alcohol, to each 1 pound of goods. 
^Cold water, 1 quart, will dissolve these 
'small quantities of aniline red, but the 
cleanest and quickest way will be found 
by using the alcohol, or wood spirits. 
Clean the cloth and goods by steeping 
at a gentle heat in weak soapsuds, rinse 
in several masses of clean water and lay 
aside moist. The alcoholic solution of 
aniline is to be added from time to time 
to the warm or hot dye bath, till the color 
on the goods is of the desired shade, 
■the goods are to be removed from the 
ave bath before each addition of the 
alcoholic solution, and the bath is to be 
well stirred before the goods are re- 
turned. The alcoholic solution should 
be brst dropped into a little water, and 
wen mixed and the mixture should then 
be strained into the dye bath. If the 
fZZ l L n ? 1 dark cn °i'ffh after working 
2 30 mi ^tes, repeat the re- 

moval ot the Roods from the bath, and 
the addjt.on of the solution, and the re- 

SSh of lhe eoods from 15 to 3 o 
mov^r ,°r until su ited, then re- 

move from the bath and rinse in several 



masses of clean water, and drv in *v 
shade. Use about 4 gallons w-th r* 
dye bath for 1 pound of goods; l es J 
for larger quantities. ' Ss Wat « 

Violet for Silk or Wool.-A good vi 0 l et 
dye may be given by passing the ff „«j 
first through a solution of verdigris tk 
through a decoction of logwood 2 
lastly through alum water. A fast'viX* 
may be given by dyeing the goods crim 
son with cochineal, without a l um 0 - 
tartar, and after rinsing passing them 
through the indigo vat. Linens or cot 
tons are first galled with 18 per cent of 
gallnuts, next passed through a mordant 
of alum, iron liquor, and sulphate of 
copper, working them well, then worked 
in a madder bath made with an equal 
weight of root, and lastly brightened 
with soap or soda. 

Violet for Straw Bonnets.— Take alum 
4 pounds; tartaric acid, 1 pound; chlor- 
ide of tin, 1 pound. Dissolve and boil, 
allowing the hats to remain in the boiling 
solution 2 hours; then add enough decoc- 
tion of logwood, carmine, and indigo to 
induce the desired shade, and rinse finally 
in water in which some alum has been dis- 
solved. 

Wine Color. — For 50 pounds of goods, 
use camwood, 10 pounds, and boil 20 
minutes; dip the goods A hour, boil again, 
and dip 40 minutes; then darken with 
blue vitriol, 15 ounces, and 5 pounds of 
copperas. 

Lilac for Silk. — For 5 pounds of silk, 
use archil, 7i pounds, and mix well 
with the liquor. Make it boil { hour, 
and dip the silk quickly; then let it cool, 
and wash in river water. A fine half 
violet, or lilac, more or less full, will be 
obtained. 

RED, CRIMSON, AM) PINK DYES: 

Aniline Red.— Inclose the aniline m 
a small muslin bag. Have a kettle (tin 
or brass ) tilled with moderately 'not 
water and rub the substance out ^ 
immerse the goods to be colored, ana J" 
a short time they are done. It in JP[°_\~ 
the color to wring the goods out oi : stroi K 
soapsuds before putting them m tliea.t ■ 
This is a permanent color on vroci 
silk. 

Red Madder.— To 100 pounds of fcbnflj 
use 20 pounds of alum, 5 pounds oi 
tar, and 5 pounds of muriate oi 
When these are dissolved, cnte 
goods and let them boil for 2 hours, i 
take out, let cool, and lay ° v , ' o0 d 
Into freah water, stir 75 pounds oi g 



DYES 



271 



and enter the fabric at 120° P. 
"f ... t„ onn° R. in the course 



m^f^'^upto 200° F. in the course 
and u* n h Handle well to secure even- 
«f*^ b ei rinse and dry. 

f 



I 'a fnr Wool.— For 40 pounds o 
F ,?f make a tolerably thick paste o ; 
and sulphuric acid, and allow it 
lac d>« Ynr a day Then take tartar, 4 
to stand j y n0Ti % pounds 8 ounces, 
P°3 n 3 pounds of the paste; make a hot 
f ,h with sufficient water, and enter 
floods for § hour; afterwards care- 
fily rinse and dry. 

Crimson for Silk.— For 1 pound 0 f 
.oodTuse alum, 3 ounces; dip. at hand 
Kt i hoar- take out and dram while 
Sin* a new dye, by boiling for 10 
£5£. cochineal, 3 ounces; bruised 
Stalls, 2 ounces; and cream of tartar, 
Jounce, in 1 pail of water. When a 
Me cool begin to dip, raising the heat 
to a boil, continuing to dip 1 hour. 
Wash and dry. 

Aniline Scarlet.— For every 40 pounds 
of goods, dissolve 5 pounds white vitriol 
(sulphate of zinc) at 180° F., place the 
goods in this bath for 10 minutes, then 
add the color, prepared by boiling fora 
few minutes, 1 pound aniline scarlet in 
3 gallons water, stirring the same con- 
tinually. This solution has to be fil- 
tered before being added to the bath. 
The goods remain in the latter for 15 
minutes, when they have become 
browned and must be boiled for another 
half hour in the same bath after the so- 
lution of sal ammoniac. The more of 
this is added the deeper will be the shade. 



Scarlet with Cochineal. — For 50 pounds 
of wool, yarn, or cloth, use cream of tar- 
tar, 1 pound 9 ounces; cochineal, pul- 
verized, 12i ounces; muriate of tin or 
scarlet spirit, 8 pounds. After boiling 
the dye, enter the goods, work them well 
ior 15 minutes, then boil them \\ hours, 
slowly agitating the goods while boiling, 
Vast i n clean water, and dry out of the 
sun. J 

Scarlet vrith Lac Dye. — For 100 
P°unds of flannel or yarn, take 25 
P°unda oF ground lac dye, 15 pounds of 
.^net spirit (made as per directions be- 
.° w ), 5 pounds of tartar, 1 pound of flav- 
crv ? r , aCCOrtnng to shade, 1 pound of tin 
all f 5 P oun ds of muriatic acid. Boil 
170=1 5 minutes, then cool the dye to 
ii y «. Enter the goods, and handle 
an!? 1 .^ckly at first. Let boil 1 hour, 
an, ri r s c while yet hot, before the gum 
staL lmpmHies harden. This color 
"^os scoimns with soap better than 



cochineal scarlet. A small quantity of 

the P gX? bC add6d t0 * ssolv « 

Muriate of Tin or Scarlet Spirit. - 
±ake 10 pounds muriatic acid, 22° Be ■ 
1 pound feathered tin, and water, 1 
pounds. The acid should be put in a 
stoneware pot, and the tin added, and 
allowed to dissolve. The mixture should 
be kept a few days before using. The 
tin is feathered or granulated by melting 
in a suitable vessel, and pouring it from 
a height of about 5 feet into a pailful of 
water. This is a most powerful agent 
in certain colors, such as scarlets, or- 
anges, pinks, etc. 

Pink for Cotton. — For 40 pounds of 
goods, use redwood, 20 pounds; muriate 
of tin, 9^ pounds. Boil the redwood 1 
hour, turn off into a large vessel, add the 
muriate of tin, and put in the goods. 
Let it stand 5 or 10 minutes, and a good 
fast pink will be produced. 

Pink for Wool. — For CO pounds of 
goods, take alum, 5 pounds 12 ounces; 
boil and immerse the goods 50 minutes; 
then add to the dye cochineal well pul- 
verized, 1 pound, 4 ounces; cream of 
tartar, 5 pounds; boil and enter the goods 
while boiling, until the color is satisfac- 
tory. 

YELLOW, ORANGE, AND BRONZE 

DYES: 

Aniline Yellow.— This color is slightly 
soluble in water, and for dyers use may 
be used directly for the preparation of 
the bath dye, but is best used by dis- 
solving 1 pound of dye in 2 gallon, alco- 
hol Temperature of bath should be 
under 200 F. The color is much im- 
proved and brightened by a trace of sub 
phuric acid. 

Yellow for Cotton. -For 40 pounds 
xenow iux , „ pounds s 

goods, use sugar of lead, J P a 
ounces; dip.the goods 2 I ours m % 
new dye with bichro^te ot P ^ 

peat the operation. 

* cj«r —For 10 pounds ot 
Yellow for S^^/n ounces; alum, 
goods, use sugar of lead 7^ou ^ ^ 

% pounds. . ^f^u^^remove them, 
them remain 12 *°^' dye with fustic, 
dra in, ^^m^ until the color 



10 pou 
suits. 



qu 
the 



DYES 




may be ust_ 

better color is induced by it. 

H —For 40 pounds of goods, use 
sugar of lead, 2 pounds, and boil U 
minutes. When a little cool, enter the 
goods, and dip for 2 hours, wring them 
out, make a fresh dye with bichromate 
of potash, 4 pounds; madder, 1 pound, 
and immerse until the desired color is 
secured. The shade may be varied by 
dipping in limewater. 

Bronze. — Sulphate or muriate of man- 
ganese dissolved in water with a little 
tartaric acid imparts a beautiful bronze 
tint. The stuff after being put through 
the solution must be turned through a 
weak lye of potash, and afterwards 
through another of chloride of lime, to 
brighten and fix it. 

Prussiate of copper gives a bronze or 
yellowish-brown color to silk. The piece 
well mordanted with blue vitriol may be 
passed through a solution of prussiate of 
potash. 

Mulberry for Silk. — For 6 pounds of 
silk, use alum, 1 pound 4 ounces; dip 50 
minutes, wash out, and make a dye with 
brazil wood, 5 ounces, and logwood, 1J 
ounces, bv boiling together. Dip in this 
\ hour; then add more brazil wood and 
logwood, equal parts, until the color 
suits. 

FEATHER DYES. 

T. — Cut some white curd soap in small 
pieces, pour boiling water on them, and 
add a little pearlash. When the soap is 
quite dissolved, and the mixture cool 
enough for the hand to bear, plunge the 
feathers into it, and draw them through 
the hand till the dirt appears squeezed 
out of them; pass them through a clean 
lather with some blue in it; then rinse 
them in cold water with blue to give them 
a good color. Beat them against the 
hand to shake off the water, and dry by 
shaking them near a fire. When perfect- 
ly dry coil each fiber separately with a 
blunt knife or ivory folder. 

' I1, 7" Black -— Immerse for % or 3 days 
m a bath, at first hot, of logwood, 8 
parts, and copperas or acetate of iron, 
1 part. 

- Blue.— Same as II, but with the 

indigo vat. 

KriJ"~i Bro 7 n, ~ :B y usin g an y of the 
brown dyes for silk or woofen. 

folh^S r l mS ° n C~^ raordant of alum, 

afterwS l V hot bath of brazil wood 
afterwards by a weak dye of cudbear. 



VI-— Pink or Rose.— With *»m 
or lemon juice. s afflo Wet 

VII. — Plum.— With the red dv 
lowed by an alkaline bath. ' E °l- 

VIII. — Red.— A mordant of „i 
followed by a bath of brazil wood. ' 

IX. — Yellow.— A mordant of a i,, 
followed by a bath of turmeric or weld 




i pmi; mu mein wen ana rii 
ers, they having been first so 
water, into the said mixture. 

XI. — Purple.— Use lake and indigo. 

XII. — Carnation.— Vermilion and 
smalt. 

DYES FOR ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS. 

The French employ velvet, fine cam- 
bric, and kid for the petals, and taffeta 
for the leaves. Very recently thin plates 
of bleached whalebone have been used 
for some portions of the artificial flowers. 

Colors and Stains. — I. — Blue. — Indigo 
dissolved in oil of vitriol, and the acid 
partly neutralized with salt of tartar or 
whiting. 

II. — Green. — A solution of distilled 
verdigris. 

III. — Lilac. — Liquid archil, 

IV. — Red. — Carmine dissolved ia a 
solution of salt of tartar, or in spirts of 
hartshorn. 

V. — Violet. — Liquid archil mixed with 
a little salt of tartar. 

VI. — Yellow.— Tincture of turmeric. 
The colors are generally applied with 
the fingers. 

DYES FOR FURS: 

I. — Brown. — Use tincture of logwood. 

II. — Red. — Use ground brazil wood, 
i pound; water, 1* q uarts = T- *S 
i ounce; boil the brazil wood m tnc 
water 1 hour; strain and add the coem 
neal; boil 15 minutes. 

III. -Scarlet. -Boil h ounce 

in i pint of water, and past- o^e^ 
work Tbef ore applying the red. 

IV. -Blue.- Use logwood, 7 ouuees; 
blue vitriol, 1 ounce; water, 22 °unc 
boil. ces . 

V. — Purple.— Use logwood, U ounce ' j 
alum, 6 ounces; water, 29 ounces. ^ 

VI — Green. —Use strong viaegaj^ 
pints; best verdigris, 2 ounc % to . 
fine; sap green, J ounce; 1111 
gether and boil. 



DYES 



S7a 



«vSS FOR HATS. 

hats should be at first strongly 
Tj boiling a long lime m a decoc- 
«* ll£ f Trails with a little logwood so that 
H. 0I, Jve may penetrate into their sub- 
the * «fter which a proper quantity of 
st .?M and decoction of logwood, with a 
rt? 0 ^rHi-ris are added, and the hats 
m \ 0 r rd jV s rl ^ ixturc f or a considerable 
kept m are a r)- erw ards put into a 



tune 

fresh hq 



uor of logwood, galls, vitriol, 
and, when the hats are 



i »r;iiVris and, wlien tne mius urc 
n 1,; e of of a hair which with difficulty 
ffQthe dve s the same process is re- 
toA a third time. For obtaining the 
pea i nerfect color, the hair or wool is 
?wd blue before it is formed into hats, 
'the ordinary bath for dyeing hats, em- 
n i n W bv London manufacturers, con- 
£ for 12 dozen, of 144 pounds of 
Lwood; 12 pounds of green sulphate oi 
iron or copperas; 7* pounds verdigris 
The logwood having been introduced 
into the* copper and digested for some 
time, the copperas and verdigris are 
added in successive quantities, and in 
the above proportions, along with every 
successive 2 or 3 dozen of bats sus- 
pended upon the dripping machine. 
Each set of hats, after being > exposed to 
the bath with occasional airings during 
40 minutes, is taken off the pegs, and laid 
out upon the ground to be more com- 
pletely blackened by the peroxydize- 
ment of the iron with the atmospheric 
oxygen. In 3 or 4 hours the dyeing is 
completed. When fully dyed, the hats 
are well washed in running water. 

Straw hats or bonnets may be dyed 
black by boiling them 3 or 4 hours in a 
strong hquor of logwood, adding a little 
copperas occasionally. Let the bonnets 
remain in the liquor all night; then take 
out to dry in the air. If the black is not 
satisfactory, dye again after drying. 
Kttb insijg an< j out ^{{h a sponge 

moistened in fine oil; then block. 

Dye. — Roil ground brazil 
wQod in a lye oE potash, and boil yovi 
™aw hats in it. 

U.—Blue Dye.— Take a sufficient 
juanuty oE potash lye, 1 pound of litmus 
ELn^k 111118 ' g rou nd; make a decoction 

a the a Put in the straw, and boil it. 

T V?^ E ' STIFFEN, AND BLEACH 
F EbT HATS. 

iJS* hats are dyed by repeated im- 
*atp*. 0t1 ' drawing and dipping in a hot 
green ^°. hltion of logwood, 38 parts; 
wA v A; n< ? l > 3 Parts; verdigris, 2 parts; 
ex Dos he immersions and drawing with 
v "ure to the air 13 or 14 times, or 



untu the color suits, each step in the 
process lasting from i 0 to 15 minutes 
Anilme colors rnay be advantageously 
used instead of the above. For a stiffen- 
ing, dissolve borax, 10 parts; carbonate 
of potash 3 parts, ln hot water; then add 
shellac, 50 parts, and boil until all is dis- 
solved; apply with a sponge or a brush, 
or'bv immersing the hat when it is cold, 
and dip at once m very dilute sulphuric 
or acetic acid to neutralize the alkali and 
fix the shellac. Felt hats can be bleached 
by the use of sulphuric acid gas. 

LIQUID DYE COLORS. 

These colors, thickened with a little 
gum, may be used as inks in writing, or 
as colors to tint maps, foils, artificial 
flowers, etc., or to paint on velvet: 

I. — Blue, — Dilute Saxon blue or sul- 
phate of indigo with water. If required 
for delicate work, neutralize with chalk. 

II. — Purple. — Add a little alum to 
strained decoction of logwood. 

III. — Green. — Dissolve sa^ green i 
water and add a little alum. 

IV. — Yellow. — Dissolve annatto in 
w T eak lye of subcarbonate of soda o 
potash. 

V. — Golden Color. — Steep Frenc 
berries in hot water, strain, and add 
little gum and alum. 

VI. Red. — Dissolve carmine in am 

mouia, or in weak carbonate of potas 
water, or infuse powdered cochineal i 
water, strain, and add a little gum i 
water. 

UNCLASSIFIED DYERS' RECIPES : 

To Cleanse Wool. -Make a hot bat 
composed of water, 4 parts; ammonia, 

? l Vter ml 20 miJl,' immersion, 
liquid. Alter m allow it to 

remove from. tbe.bq«>d ^d anow 
drain; then rinse in clean 
and spread out to **f on £ only 

good for subsequent operatmn ^ 
| eep up the proportions, ana 

S To' Extract OU Spots »! 
Goods.-Satuxate the spot w th fe 

then P^^ tW °P^t W o npo^it, press wefl 
paper under and two uy ^ be 

with a hot iron, and tne B 
absorbed. - 1nr( . _Tra- 

Ne w Mor^t for ^ C^S" a bath 



merse the goods for so ™ [de Qr acet » te 
of cold fater mw hieh J* ^ th so ] u - 

of sine taa been disso^ ^ wool $ 

tion shows % ±> e - 



DYES 



mordanting bath should be at a boiling 
heat, and the poods should also be placed 
in a warm bath of tannin, 90° F., for half 
an hour. In dyeing, a hot solution of 
the color must be used to which should 
be added, in the case of the cotton, some 
chloride of zinc, and, in the case of the 
wool, a certain amount of tannin solu- 
tion. 

To Render Aniline Colors Soluble in 
\y a t en _A solution of gelatin in acetic 
acid of almost the consistence of syrups 
is first made, and the aniline in fine is 
gradually added, stirring all the time so 
as to make a homogeneous paste. The 
mixture is then to be heated over a water 
bath to the temperature of boiling water 
and kept at that heat for some time. 

Limewater for Dyers' Use. — Put some 
lime, 1 pound, and strong limewater, 1$ 
pounds, into a pail of water; rummage 
well for 7 or 8 minutes. Then let it 
rest until the lime is precipitated and the 
water clear; add this quantity to a tubful 
of clear water. 

To Renew Old Silks. — Unravel and 
put them in a tub, cover with cold water, 
and let them remain 1 hour. Dip them 
up and down, but do not wring; hang up 
to drain, and iron while very damp. 

Fuller's Purifier for Cloths.— Dry, 
pulverize, and sift the following ingredi- 
ents: Fuller's earth, 6 pounds; French 
chalk, 4 ounces; pipe clay, 1 pound. 
Make into a paste with rectified oil of 
turpentine, 1 ounce; alcohol, 2 ounces; 
melted oil soap, pounds. Compound 
the mixture into cakes of any desired size, 
keeping them in water, or small wooden 
boxes. 

To Fix Dyes.— Dissolve 20 ounces of 
gelatin in water, and add 3 ounces of 
bichromate of potash. This is done in a 

jj rOUm ' T " ie colorin g matter is then 
added and the goods submitted thereto, 
atter which they are exposed to the action 

i ?, • Tlie Pig mei1t tbus becomes in- 
soluble m water and the color is fast. 

DYES A WD DYESTUFFS. 

Prominent among natural dyestuffs is 
the coloring matter obtained from log- 
wood and known as "hsematein." The 
color-forming substance (or chromogen) 
hematoxylin, exists in the logwood 
partly free and partly as a glucoside. 
vvnen pure, hsematoxylin forms nearly 
colorless crystals, but on oxidation, es- 
pecially m the presence of an alkali, it 
u> converted into the coloring matter 
bjematein which forms colored lakes 
with metallic bases, yielding violets. 



blues, and blacks with various mor^* 
Logwood comes into commerce Jf n > 
form of logs, chips, and extracts n*u 
chips are moistened with water La 
posed m heaps so as to induce ferment 
bon, alkalies and oxidizing aeent« k • 
added to promote the "cnrW' n? 
tion. When complete and the G ffl| 
assumed a deep ^dish-brown X tl! 
decoction is made which is emr.lr^Ji • 
dyeing. The extract o« m ™ P ^ 
in transportation, storage, and use J*™ 
now usually made from logwood cbim 
that have not been cured. The chins 
treated in an extractor, pr e3sur / oft ^ 
being used. The extract is sometimes 
adulterated with chestnut, hemlock and 
quercitron extracts, and with glucose or 
molasses. 

Fustic is the heart- wood of certain 
species of trees indigenous to the West 
Indies and tropical South America. It 
is sold as chips and extract, yields a 
coloring principle which forms lemon- 
yellow lakes with alumina and is chiefly 
used in dyeing wool. Young fustic is 
the heart-wood of a sumac native to the 
shores of the Mediterranean, which 
yields an orange-colored lake with alum- 
ina and tin salts. 

Cutch, or catechu, is obtained from 
the wood and pods of the Acacia catechu, 
and from the betel nut, both native in 
India. Cutch appears in commerce in 
dark-brown lumps, which form a dark- 
brown solution with water. It contains 
catechu-tan nic acid, as tannin and 
catechin, and is extensively used in 
weighting black silks, as a mordant for 
certain basic coal-tar dyes, as a brown 
dye on cotton, and for calico printing. 

Indigo, which is obtained from the 
glucoside indican existing in the indigo 
plant and in woad, is one of the oldest 
dyestuffs. It is obtained from the plant 
by a process of fermentation and oxida- 
tion. Indigo appears in commerce in 
dark-blue cubical cakes, varying very 
much in composition as they often con- 
tain indigo red and indigo brown, be- 
sides moisture, mineral matters, ana 
glutinous substances. Consequently en 
color varies. Powdered indigo <h ss0l T% 
in concentrated fuming sulphuric SCJO, 
forming monosulphonic and d lsul r!? 
acids. On neutralizing these solutions 
with sodium carbonate and precipitau j. 



the indigo carmine with comma l : \ 0 ] n . 
therc is obtained the indigo extract, s ^ 
ble indigo, and indigo carmine or _ 
merce. True indigo carmine is tn ^ 
dium salt of the disulphonic & p,a ' » 
when sold dry it is called "» udl £r! n .!r*nt 
One of the most important ol Inert* 



DYES 



276 



, • -ments of chemistry is the synthetic 
aC j (inn of indigo on a commercial 
produce 

sca ! e ;-firial dyestuffs assumed preponder- 
M •Jfrmrtance with the discovery of 
J* D fji??olor mauve by Perkin in 185fi, 



7o fl « for with each succeeding year other 
1 i e have been discovered, until at the 
ZSt time there are several thousand 
P r ^ organic dyes or colors on the 
arU t; Since th/ first of these were 
*7 TtpH from aniline or its derivatives 
Korswere known as "aniline dyes," 
t i « a Iar"e number are now prepared 
& othe? Constituents of coal tar than 
Sne they are better called "coal-tar 
^stuffs " There are many schemes ot 
Location. Eenedikt-Knecht divides 
them into I, aniline or amine dyes; II, 
phenol dyes; III, azp dyes; IV, qumo- 
Kae and acridme derivatives; V, anthra- 
cene dyes; and VI, artificial indigo. _ _ 

Of the anthracene dyes, the alizarine is 
the most important, since this is the 
coloring principle of the madder. The 
synthesis of alizarine from anthracene 
was effected by Grabc and Liebermann 
in 1S68. This discovery produced a 
complete revolution in calico printing, 
turkey-red dyeing, and in the manu- 
facture of madder preparations. Madder 
finds to-day only a very limited applica- 
tion in the dyeing of wool. 

In textile dyeing and printing, sub- 
stances called mordants arc largely used, 
either to fix or to develop the color on 
tic fiber. Substances of mineral origin, 
such as salts of aluminum, chromium, 
iron, copper, antimony, and tin, prin- 
cipally, and many others to a less extent 
and of organic origin, like acetic, oxalic, 
citric, tartaric, and lactic aeid, sulpho- 
sated oils, and tannins are employed as 
mordants. 

Iron liquor, known as black liquor or 
PSiolignite of iron, is made by dissolving 
se rap hon in pyroligneous acid. It is 
Us ed as a mordant in dyeing silks and 
a P d m calico printing. 
Ked liquor is a solution of aluminum 
cetate in acetic acid, and is produced 
y acting on calcium or lead acetate solu- 
ons with aluminum sulphate or the 
°Bble alums, the supernatant liquid 
R lng the red 1Ic l U0T - The red liquor 
alw C is ofteu the sulpho-acetate of 
uunna resulting when the quantity of 



i m ? r lea(i acetate is insufficient to 

S - y deco1 



compose the aluminum 



dark K ^ rt ^ nar "y the solutions have a 
1ipt,„ wn eolor and a strong pyro- 
C° US - odor - Xt is called red liquor 
lt was first used in dyeing reds. 



It is employed as a mordant bv th* 
cotton dyer and largely by the " ri£JT 

Non-Poisonous Textile and Egg Dy 
for Household Use.-The preparationo 
non-poisonous colors for dyeing fabric, 
and eggs at home constitutes a separaf 
department m the manufacture of dve 
stuffs. J 

Certain classes of aniline dyes may b 
properly said to form the materials. Th 
essence of this color preparation eonsis 1 
chiefly m diluting or weakening the coal 
tar dyes, made in the aniline factorie 
and bringing them down to a certai 
desired shade by the addition of certai 
chemicals suited to their varying chara 
teristics, which, though weakening the 
color, act at the same time as the so-called 
mordants. 

The anilines are divided with refer- 
ence to their characteristic reactions into 
groups of basic, acid, moderately acid, 
as well as dyes that are insoluble in 
water. 

In eases where combinations of one or 
more colors are needed, only dyes of 
similar reaction can be combined, that is, 
basic with basic, and acid with acid. 

For the purpose of reducing the 
original intensity of the colors, and also 
as mordants, dextrin, Glauber's salt, 
alum, or aluminum sulphate is pressed 
into service. Where Glauber's salt is 
used, the neutral salt is exclusively em- 
ployed, which can be had cheaply and m 
immense quantities in the chemical 
industry. Since it is customary to pacK 
the color mixtures in two paper boxes, 
one stuck into the other, and ^°J e | 
since certain coal-tar dyes are only used 
in large crystals, it is only reasonable ; that 
the mordants should be calcined and not 
out up in the shape of crystallized salts 
Pearly sinc/these latter ) are prone 
lo absorb the nio^ 5 ture from^ th ° « 
when thus wet hkdy tofor* a comp.^ 
ma33 ve ry difficult to *«o£ ^ 
convenience olten occui y [ 0 ]et, 

crystals of fu chsin ^ a " d nr Tmcitly used 
Because these two co o«a e most y ^ 

fa, combination £ " a ] S o very 

eggs, and since dex n i these in . 
hygroscopic, it is ^cr i d G]aU . 
di&lual e^es to c-ploy cah ture 

ber's salt. "^ring coal-tar dyes 

colors the alkaline = co oimg befoun d 
are mostly used and t ey a 

in a great variety of sbadea. there 

Of the non-poiBonous eg » ^ 
are some ten or * **cn bl e , 

red , carmine. scar ^ en pin brown, W-cfc 
yellow, orange, ^when mixed will 
heliotrope, etc.. wmu 



276 

enable the operator to form shades 

•«T nn in the factory consists in a 
Sanical mixing of basic coal -tar dye- 
SS& also »ome direct coloring benzi- 
dine dyes tuffs, with dextrin m the ratio 
of about 1 P»rt of anil me dye to 8 parte 
of dextrin; under certain f^ u + m f^nce S 
according to the concentrated state of the 
dyes tLe reducing quantity of the dextrin 
Say be greatly increased.. As reducing 
agents for these colors insoluble sub- 
stances may also be employed. A part 
also of the egg dyes are treated with the 
neutral sulphate; for instance, light 
brilliant green, because of its rubbing off, 
is made with dextrin and Glauber s salt 
in the proportion of 1:3:3. 

For the dyeing of eggs such color mix- 
tures are preferably employed as contain 
along with the dye proper a fixing agent 
(dextrin) as well as a medium for the 
superficial mordanting of the eggshell. 
The colors will then be very brilliant. 

Here are some recipes: 

Color Dyestuff by Acid trln 

Weight 

Blue.. .Marine blue B.N.. . 3.5 35.0 fiO.O 

Brown.. VeaiivinS 30.0 37.5 30.0 

Green . .Brilliant ereenO.. .13.5 . IS.O 67.5 

Orange. Orange ri 9.0 18.0 75.0 

Red ... Diamond fuehsine I. 3.5 18.0 75.0 

Pink . . . Eosin A 4.5 — 90.0 

Violet. . Methyl violet 6 B. . 3.6 18.0 75.0 

Yellow. NapLthol yellowS. 13. 5 30. 0 67.5 

Very little of these mixtures suffices for 
dyeing five eggs. The coloring matter is 
dissolved in 600 parts by weight of boil- 
ing water, while the eggs to be dyed are 
boiled hard, whereupon they are placed 
in the dye solution until they seem suffi- 
ciently colored. The dyes should be put 
up in waxed paper. 

Fast Stamping Color. — Rub up sepa- 
rately, 20 parts of cupric .sulphate and 20 
parts of anilic hydrochlorate, then mix 
carefully together, after adding 10 parts 
of dextrin. The mixture is next ground 
with 5 parts of glycerine and sufficient 
water until a thick, uniform, paste-like 
mass results, adapted for use by means 
of stencil and bristle-brush. Aniline 
black la formed thereby in and upon the 
liber, which is not destroyed by boiling. 

New Mordanting Process.— The or- 
dinary method of mordanting wool with 
a bichromate and a reducing agent al- 
ways makes the fiber more or less tender, 
IS ? n r mei i d ,P r °P°sed to substitute the 
?n» i f S ° lutlon of chromic acid contam- 

wLl *f P ! r Cent of the wei S ht of the 
wool, at a temperature not exceeding 



DYES 



148° F., and to treat it afterwards 
solution of sodium bisulphite A , a 
ing to a recent French patent b^tt 
results are obtamed with neutral or 33? 
ly basic chromium sulphocyanide TV 
salt, if neutral or only slightly basic win 
mordant wool at 148° F. The doubf 
sulphocyanide of chromium and ammo 
mum, got by dissolving chromic oxide in 
ammonium sulphocyanide, can also h 
used. Nevertheless, in order to precini 
tate chromium chromate on the liber 
it is advisable to have a soluble chromate 
and a nitrate present, as well as a soluble 
copper salt and a free acid. One ex- 
ample of the process is as follows: Make 
the bath with 2 to 3 per cent of ammonio- 
chromium sulphocyanide, one-half of 1 
per cent sodium bichromate, one-third of 
1 per cent sodium nitrite, one-third of 1 
per cent sulphate of copper, and 1.5 per 
cent sulphuric acid— percentages based 
on the weight of the wool. Enter cold 
and slowly heat to about 140° to 150° P. 
Then work for half an hour, lift and rinse. 
The bath does not exhaust and can ba 
reinforced and used again. 

Process for Dyeing in Khaki Colors.— 
Bichromate of potash or of soda, chloride 
of manganese, and a solution of acetate 
of soda or formiatc of soda (15° Be.) are 
dissolved successively in equal quan- 
tities. 

The solution thus composed of these 
three salts is afterwards diluted at will, 
according to the color desired, con- 
stituting a range from a dark brown to a 
light olive green shade. The propor- 
tions of the three salts may be increased 
or diminished, in order to obtain shades 
more or less bister. i 

Cotton freed from its impurities by the 
usual methods, then fulled as ordinarily, 
is immersed in the bath. After a period, 
varying according to the results desired, 
the cotton, threads, or fabrics of cotton, 
are washed thoroughly and plunged, sou 
wet, into an alkaline solution, of wwen 
the concentration ought never to he je 
than 14° Be. This degree of cow*nt» 
tion is necessary to take hold ot tae n 
when the cotton comes in contact . 
the alkaline bath, and by the cont»c*»J 
which takes place the oxides °yf™ft e 
and of manganese remain fixed 

is followed Tg 




>ncs are mim 



for 



initial bath, left the necessary U V ihea 
obtaining the desired shade. a"u 



BYES 



277 



was 



, t i,ut without passing them through 
n fine bath. This process furnishes 
» naJ - «f khaki colors, solid to light, to 
U'Z aud to ohlortoe. 

^ffet Lake.— In a vat holding 120 
Sis provided with good agitating ap- 
galicu^ i dissolve 8 pounds potash alum 
P 10 ffallons hot water and add 50 
n Zs cold water. Prepare a solution of 
n ds ammonia soda and add slowly 



foSa^mloTution stirring all the time. 
K a second vessel dissolve 5 pounds of 
Silliint scarlet aniline, by first making 
? into a paste with cold water and after- 
wards pouring boiling water over it; now 
Sout steam into the vat until a temper- 
Krof 150 Q to 165- P. is obtained. 
Next dissolve 10 pounds barium chloride 
in 10 gallons hot water in a separate 
vessel, add this very slowly, stir at least 
S hours, keeping up temperature to the 
same figures. Fill up vat with cold water 
and leave the preparation for the night. 
Next morning the liquor (which should 
be of a bright red color) is drawn off, and 
cold water again added. Wash by de- 
cantation 3 times, filter, press gently, and 
make into pulp. m < * 

It is very important to precipitate the 
aluminum cold, and heat up before 
adding the dyestuff. The chemicals 
used for precipitating must be added 
very slowly and while constantly stirring. 
The quantity used for the three wash- 
ings is required each time to be double 
the quantity originally used. 

I— Madder Lakes. — Prepare from 
the root 1 pound best madder, alum 
water (1 pound alum with 1£ gallons of 
water), saturated solution of carbonate 
of potash (I pound carbonate of potash 
M gallon of water). 

The madder root is inclosed in a linen 
•>ag of fine texture, and bruised with a 
P e stle m. a large mortar with 2 gallons of 
^ater (free from lime) added in small 
quantities at a time, until all the coloring 
fatter is extracted. Make this liquor 
°n, and gradually pour into the boiling 
^ter solution. Add the carbonate of 
g"* sh solution gradually, stirring all the 
Jr?- Le t the mixture, stand for 12 hours 
11(1 trap and dry as required. 

m?;~~^arancine Pro cess. —This is the 
to tli i c usua % employed in preference 
Pared i r ° m thc rooL G-araneine is pre- 
rjhftt °J steeping madder root in sul- 
Xe of s °da and washing. 

Y,arancine 2 pounds 

(dissolved in a 
httle water) % pounds 



Chloride of tin x 
Sufficient carbonate' of^pTash or 
soda to precipitate the alum 

waTe°r Sd KIT 1 " '^f S allons of P^re 
from 1 t 9 t Um> A a ,T d conti ™e boding 
irom 1 to % hours. Allow the product to 
partially settle and filter through flannel 
before cooling. Add to the filtrate the 
chloride of tin, and sufficient of the pot- 
ash or soda solution to precipitate the 
alum; filter through flannel and wash 
well. The first filtrate may be used for 
lake ot an inferior quality, and the 
garancine originally employed may also 
be treated as above, when a lake slightly 
inferior to the first may be obtained. 

Maroon Lake.— Take of a mixture 
made of : 

f Sapan wood ) .„ 
\ Lima wood \ " ' 56 P arts 

Soda crystals 42 parts 

Alum 56 parts 

Extract the color from the woods as foi 
rose pink, and next boil the soda an 
alum together and add to the woo " 
solution cold. This must be washe 
clean before adding to the wood liquo 

Carnation Lake. — 

Water 4£ gallons 

Cochineal 12 pounds 

Salts of tartar 1% pounds 

Potash alum f pound 

Nitrous acid, nitro- 

muriate of tin. ... . 44 pounds 
Muriatic acid, nitro- 

muriateoftin 60 pounds 

Pure block tin, nitro- 

muriate of tin W pounds 

Should give specific gravity 1.310. 

Boil the water with close steam, taking 
care that no irow touches it; add the 
cochineal and boil for not more than five 
minutes - then turn off the steam and add 



a dd the alum. H it should not rise, put 
turn). Add gradually ^ r 

little of tt«P"E ° D 0 b r 'on SAsU 
^„°VendS ? C iJ 'VZte, too much W 
has been used. . 

i 0 T «t ^^"i* 

cipitatmg.— * ™ V ;f fL co lor spreads, it 




D^ES 



has been used. 

B^CK LAKES FOR WALL-PAPER 
^MANUFACTURE : 

Bluish-Black Lake. -Bod well 220 
na 7ts of Domingo logwood m 1,000 
P a ; f ' a t« to which 2 parts of am- 
Cnltda have^en added" to the boil- 
£2 logwood add next 25 parts of green 
vUriol and then 3-5 parts of sodmm bi- 
Sromate. The prec pitated logwood 
lake Ts washed out welf twice and then 
filtered. 

Black Lake Ai.— Logwood extract, 
Sanford, 120 parts; green vitriol, 30 
parts; acetic acid, 7° Be., 10 parts; sodium 
bichromate, 16 parts; powdered alum, 
20 parts. The logwood extract, is nrst 
dissolved in boiling water and brought 
to 25° Be. by the addition of cold water. 
Then the remaining ingredients are 
added in rotation, the salts in substance, 
finely powdered, with constant stirring. 
After the precipitation, wash twice and 
filter. 

Aniline Black Lake. — In the precipi- 
tating vat filled with 200 parts of cold 
water enter with constant stirring in the 
order mentioned the following solutions 
kept in readiness: Forty parts of alum dis- 
solved in 800 parts of water; 10 parts of 
calcined soda dissolved in 100 parts of 
water; 30 parts of azo black dissolved in 
1,500 parts of water; 0.6 parts of "brilliant 
green" dissolved in 100 parts of water; 
0.24 parts of new fuchsine dissolved in 60 
parts of water; 65 parts of barium 
chloride dissolved in 1,250 parts of 
water. Allow to settle for 24 hours, wash 
the lake three times and filter it. 

Carmine Lake for Wall Paper and 

?^ 6d e ? apers '~ Aramonia soda ( 9S P er 
cent], 57.5 parts by weight; spirits (96 

JXrErV 0 Pait \ by Weight ^ coralUn 
£S> *° Pars b ^ w «ght; corallin 
Smmn- ??r o S J?y weight; spirit of sal 
ammomac (HP Be.), 8 parts by weight; so- 

nS °T h t' 30 parts ^ weight; stan- 
the cnV;ir par i a by weight - Dissolve 

C&T^5 rfthW bottleSi ea - ch 

of snirit rf L? ot the above quantity 

* S^£r°2Si I,, -? anw ^ e - be disS ° lved 
the stirring vat 



le solution run into 

in which there is cold 

* ' sodimn"«C" fi i' ° f 17 in °hes. Add 

di SS oben n PboSphate ' which has heen 
n > a copper vessel, then the 



corallin solution, and next the * 
chloride diluted with 3 pailful t nit 
water. Lastly the barium chWi i Colci 
tlon is added. The day previol u S ? lu ' 
chloride is dissolved in a cask in r Una 
boiling water as possible anri +K &S tle ' 
tacle is filled entirelv with ? Tece P- 
On the day following, allow 
run in slowly during a period of ft? * 
fourths of an hour, stir till evening In 
to settle for 2 days, draw off andtlterP 
English Pink. — 

Quercitron bark. ... goo part 
L J me 10 parts 

Terra alba 300 parts 

Whltin £v • " 200 parts 

bugar of lead 7 parts 

Put the bark into a tub, slake lime ' m 
another tub, and add the clear limewater 
to wash the bark; repeat this 3 times 
letting the bark stand in each water 24 
hours. Run liquor into the tub below 
and add the terra alba and whiting; 
wash well in the top tub and run into 
liquor below through a hair sieve, stirring 
well. 

Dissolve the sugar of lead in warm 
water and pour gently into the tub, stir- 
ring all the time; then dissolve the alum 
and run in while stirring; press slightly, 
drop, and dry as required. 

Dutch Pink.— 

I. — Quercitron bark. . . 200 parts 

Lime 20 parts 

Alum 20 parts 

Whiting 100 parts 

Terra alba 200 parts 

White sugar of lead 10 parts 

-Quercitron bark.. . 300 parts 

Lime 10 parts 

Alum 10 s 

Terra alba 400 parts 

whiting io ;p a ^ 

Sugar of lead P M 

Put the bark into a tub 

r, slake 28 pounds of bm^^S 
the limewater to the bark. ( 1 lve 
all the color out of the wood.) . U1 ^ bark 
alum in water and run it into 
liquor. The alum solution must o < i , { 
warm. Dissolve sugar of lead«> 
to above, and afterwards add ^ , d 
alba and whiting. The P^'K/opped 
now be in a pulp, and must 0<s 
and dried as required. 
Rose Pink. — I. — Light. 

100 P arts 



.1 



II. 



water. 



Sapan wood J £ ftrtg 

' ' " 200 pa rts 
' " * giO part* 



Lima 

Paris white 
Alum 




DYES 



279 



II. 



iSn*°° d 300 parts 

, 300 parts 

K alba 400 parts 

16 | white 120 parts 



p^ wI1 :::: 5p«£ 

Sum.''-'-"- 200 parts 

Tt e-oanwood 200 parts 

Alum 124 narts 

Whiting 1554 P arts 

n :i the woods together in 4 waters 
diet the products stand mm] -J 



the" whiting and terra alba 
hair sieve, and afterwards run 



' h Tp g alum.*"lT a' deep color is required 
? I 12 pounds lime and run it in at the 
Sfthroueb a hair sieve. Let the alum 
i?j^warm or it will show in the pink. 

DYES, COLORS, ETC., FOR TEXTILE 
GOODS: 

Aniline Black.— This black is pro- 
duced bv carefully oxidizing aniline hy- 
drochloride. The exact stage of oxida- 
tion must be carefully regulated or the 
product will be a different body (qui- 
Done). There are several suitable oxi- 
dizing agents, such as chromic acid, 
potassic bichromate, ferrocyanide of 
potassium, etc., but one of the easiest to 
manipulate is potassic chlorate, which 
by reacting on copper sulphate pro- 
duces potassic sulphate and copper 
chlorate. This is easily decomposed, 
its solution giving off gases at _G0° F. 
which consist essentially of chloride an- 
hydrate. But one of the most useful 
agents for the production of aniline 
black is vanadate of ammonia, 1 part of 
which will do the work of 4,000 parts of 
copper. Many other salts besides cop- 
per may he used for producing aniline 
Wack, but the following method is one of 
toe best to follow in making this dye: 

Aniline hydrochlor- 
ide.. 40 parts 

rotassic chlorate 20 parts 

popper sulphate. ... 40 parts 

Chloride of ammo- 
nia (sal ammoniac) 16 parts 

Warm water at 60° 
. F -- - 500 parts 

froths" Warmin g a few minutes the mass 
itW , U P- The vapor should not be 
toawi Then set aside, and if the 

iRain? QOt total] y black ln a few hcmrs > 
foVa ) 6at 5° 80 ° P -> and expose to the air 
a Uthn i , y s » ancI Anally wash away 
far t , se Solu ble salts and the black is fit 

* Qf ack Substitutes.— I.— Make 



Aniline (fluid measure) 30 parte 
Tolmdme (by weight)' 10 parte 
Pure hydrochloric Lii, ^ 

Snln'w: ( measure ) 60 parte 
bo iS ■ , % am arabic 

(fluid measure) 6 0 parts 

Dissolve the toluidine in the aniline 
Sa e ' finally the ™- 

IL— Mix together at gentle heat: 

Starchpaste 13 quarts 

potassic chlorate . . 350 scruples 
bulphate of copper. 300 scruples 

bal ammoniac 300 scruples 

Aniline hydrochlor- 
ide 800 scruples 

Add 5 per cent of alizarine oil, and 
then steep it for 2 hours in the dye bath 
of red liquor of Tw. Dye in a 

bath made up of \ ounce of rose bengal 
and 1^ ounces of red liquor to every 70 
ounces of cotton fabric dyed, first enter- 
ing the fabric at 112° F., and raising it to 
140° F., working for 1 hour, or until the 
desirable shade is obtained; then rinse 
and dry. 

Blush Pink on Cotton Textile. — Rose 
bengal or fast pink will give this shade. 
The mordant to use is a 5 per cent solu- 
tion of stannate of soda and another I 
per cent solution of alum. 

Dissolve in a vessel (a) 8\ parts & 
chloride of copper in 30 parts of water 
and then add ID parts chloride of sodiu 
and 9£ parts liquid ammonia. 

In a second vessel dissolve (6) 30 part 
aniline hydrochlorate in 20 parts of water 
and add 20 parts of a solution of gu 
arabic prepared by dissolving 1 part 
.rum in 2 parts of water. 

Finally mix 1 part of a with 4 parts . 
b; expose the mixture to the air for a fe 
davs to develop from a greenish to 
blick color. Dnute for use or else dr 
the thick compound to a P°* de £ dant 

Tf npw liauor is used as the moraani 
mix 1 p"rt of this with 4 narts of water 
a°nd af?er working the fafec for 1 to . 
hours in the crfd liquor M wn g 
squeeze it out and dry J lh 
it in the dye liquor, thoro^hiy 
fabric ^/^e^^by wasMng in th 

fyrb* 1 ^ - at 

T \ e ISv dissolving 13 ounces , 
may be made by a &. d x?n 

alum in 69 ounces tJl , , <ji S3 olvin 
this with a solution made by 
7* ounces of acetate oi ni» ^ 




DYEING 



off the clear fluid for use, and use this 
mixture 2*° Tw. 

The fabric is first put into the stannate 
of soda mordant for a few minutes, then 
wrung out and put into the alum mor- 
dant for about the same time;_ then it is 
again wrung out and entered in the dye 
bath at 120° F. and dyed to shade de- 
sired, and afterwards rinsed in cold 
water and dried. 

The dye bath is made of } ounce of 
rose bengal per gallon of water. If 
fast pink is the dye used, the mordant 
used would be Turkey red oil and red 
liquor. Use 8 ounces of Turkey red oil 
per gallon of water. Put the fabric into 
this, then wring out the textile and work 
in red liquor of 7° Tw. for about 2 hours, 
then wring out and^ dye in a separate 
bath made up of eosine, or fast pink, in 
water in which a little alum has been dis- 
solved. 



To Dye Woolen Yarns, etc., Various 



Shades of Magenta. — To prepare the dye 
bath dissolve 1 pound of roseine in 15 
gallons of water. For a concentrated 
solution use only 10 gallons of water, 
while if a very much concentrated color 
is needed, dissolve the dye in methylated 
spirit of wine, and dilute this spirituous 
tincture with an equal quantity of water. 

No mordant is required in using this 
color in dyeing woolen goods. The dye- 
ing operation consists simply in putting 
the goods into the dye bath at 190° F. 
and working them therein until the de- 
sired shade is obtained, then rinsing in 
cold water and drying. 

If the water used in preparing the dye 
is at all alkaline, make use of the acid 
roseine dissolved in water in which a 
little sulphuric acid has been mixed, and 
work, gradually raising to the boiling 
pointy and keep up the temperature for 
SO minutes, or according to the shade 
desired. Put about 20 per cent sul- 
phate of soda into the dye bath. 

Maroon Dye for Woolens. — To pre- 
pare the dye bath, dissolve about 1 pound 
of maroon dye in boiling water, with or 
without the addition of methylated spirit 
of wine. For dark shades dissolve in 
boiling water, only slightly acidulated 
with hydrochloric acid, and filter before 
use. No mordant is required with this 
dye when dyeing wool, hut for the bright 
shade a little curd soap may be dissolved 
in the dye bath before proceeding to dye 
the wool, while for the dark shade it is 
best to put in a little acetate of soda. To 
use the dye, first dye in a weak bath and 
gradually strengthen it until the desired 
shade is obtained, at the same time grad- 



ually increasing the temperature untfl 
just below the boiling point. 

To Dye Woolens with Blue de Lyons — 
Dissolve 8 ounces of blue dye in 1 g a u* 
of methylated spirit, which has been 
slightly soured with sulphuric acid and 
boil the solution over a water bath'until 
it is perfectly clear. To prepare the dve 
bath, add more or less of the spirituous 
tincture to a 10- or 15- gall on dye bath of 
water, which has been slightly soured 
with sulphuric acid. 

Rich Orange on Woolen. — Dissolve 1 
pound of phosphine in 15 gallons of 
boiling water, and stir the fluid until the 
acid has dissolved. No mordant is re- 
quired to dye wool. First work the 
goods about in a weak solution, and 
finally in one of full strength, to which 
a little acetate of soda has been added. 
Keep up the temperature to just below 
the boiling point while working the goods 
in the dye bath. 

DYEING SILK OR COTTON FABRICS 
WITH ANILINE DYES: 

Aniline Blue on Cotton. — Prepare a 
dye bath by dissolving 1 pound of ani- 
line blue (soluble in spirit) in 10 gallons 
of water, and set it aside to settle. 
Meanwhile prepare a mordant while 
boiling 35 ounces of sumac (or 5i 
ounces tannic acid in 30 gallons of water) 
and then dissolve therein 17 ounces of 
curd soap. Boil up and filter. Put the 
cotton goods in the hot liquid and let 
them remain therein for 12 hours. Then 
wring them out and make up a dye bath 
of Tw. with red liquor. Add dye 
color according to the shade desired. 
Put in the goods and work them until the 
color is correct, keeping the temperature 
at the boiling point. 

To Dye Silk a Delicate Greenish Yel- 
low.— Dissolve 2 ounces of citronine ml 
gallon of methylated spirit and keep tie 
solution hot over a water bath untd per- 
fectly clear. 

To prepare silk fabrics, wash them in 
a weak soap liquor that has been iusi 
sweetened (i. e., its alkalinity turned to 
■ a slight sourness) with a little sulphur"; 
acid. Work the goods until dyed to 
shade, and then rinse them in cold 
that has been slightly acidulated vrim 
acetic, tartaric, or citric acid. 

To Dye Cotton Dark Brown. -Pre- 
pare a mordant bath of 10 P° ul \ d jL° t 
catechu, 2 pounds of logwood e ^ n j 
and J pound magenta (rosein eJ. - 
bring to a boil; work the goods t lie r 
for S hours at that temperature; tnen v 



DYEING 



281 



fresh dye bath made up of 3 
jBtO * ^ bichromate of potash and 2 
P 0llI "r 0 f S al soda, and dye to shade. 
P 011 proportions are for a dye bath to 
T ? e i00 1 pounds of cotton goods at a time. 
Dve Silk Peacock Blue.— Make up 
j - bath by putting 1 pint of sul- 
» dy ;„ ac id at 170° Tw., and 10 ounces 
PfSbvlin blue crystal dye liquor of 
fo0 ? £ 160° Tw., with a dye bath that 
*n I,n1d SO pounds of goods. i'ut in 
SSJk lit ISO 0 P.. and raise to 140° F., 
P work up to shade required. 

To Dye Felt Goods.— Owing to this 
material being composed of animal and 
vegetable fiber it is not an easy matter al- 
ways to produce evenness of shade. 1 he 
best process to insure success is to steep 
ffe ll the felt in an acid bath of from 6° 
to 12° Be., and then wash away all traces 
of add. Some dyers make the fulling 
stork the medium of conveying the dye, 
while others partially dye before fulling, 
or else dye after that process. 

The fulling stock for 72 ounces of 
beaver consists of a mixture of 
Black lead or plum- 
bago 16 ounces 

Venetian red 48 ounces 

Indigo extract (fluid) . 5 ounces 

Ordinary Drab. — 

Common plumbago. . IS ounces 
Best plumbago. ..... 12 ounces 

Archil extract (fluid) . . 15 ounces 

Indigo extract 10 ounces 

Mix into fluid paste with water and add 
sulphuric acid at 30° Tw. For the dye 
nquor make a boiling-hot solution of the 
Aiulme dye and allow it to cool; then put 
into an earthenware vessel holding water 
and heat to 83° F., and add sufficient dye 
".quor to give the quantity of felt the de- 
wed shade. First moisten well the felted 
matter (or the hair, if dyed before felting) 
with water, and then work it about m 
a. abo T e dye bath at 140* F. To 
ffijpen the shade, add more dye liquor, 
adJ? g °^ the mate "al to be dyed before 
he ■ fresl1 d y e liquor, so that it can 
\riH, e 'l stlrr ed up and thoroughly mixed 
* lt * the exhausted bath. 

Br 0Wn Shades.— Bismarck brown will 
go 0 Q d / esuUs '-- Particularly if the 




•will 



give a substantial look to the 



^OIqji , -1 ' • • " » * 

tor c'ott °^ an Bine colors suitable 
Hi Jed on or wool, or those suited for 
UBed, tton and wool goods may be 



W™m7„ D ", eHher ? hina bl <^ dens. 

aikan or else steen inn hf>tV. «c 
before dyeing. P bath of sumac 

• ?* um Color.— TJsc maroon (neutral or 
acid) and work in an acid ba? Tor elte 
sumac. 

Black.— Use negrosin in an acid bath 
or else mordant an two salts and dve 
slightly acid. J 

Soluble Blue, Ball Blue, etc. — A solu- 
ble blue has for many years been readily 
obtainable in commerce which is similar 
in appearance to Prussian blue, but, un- 
like the latter, is freely soluble in water. 
This blue is said to be potassium ferri- 
ferro cyanide. 

To prepare instead of buying it ready 
made, gradually add to a boiling solu- 
tion of potassium ferricyanide (red prus- 
siate of potash) an equivalent quantity 
of hot solution of ferrous sulphate, boil- 
ing for 2 hours and washing the precip- 
itate on a filter until the washings assume 
a dark-blue color. The moist precipitate 
can at once be dissolved by the further 
addition of a sufficient quantity of water. 
About 64 parts of the iron salt is neces- 
sary to convert 100 parts of the potassium 
salt into the blue compound. 

If the blue is to be sent out in the 
liquid form, it is desirable that the solu- 
tion should be a perfect one. To attain 
that end the water employed should be 
free from mineral substances, and it is 
best to filter the solution through several 
thicknesses of fine cotton cloth before 
bottling; or if made in large quantities 
this method may be modified ty avow- 
ing it to stand some days to settle, when 
the top portion can be siphoned off for 
use, tie Lttom only retiring ; filtratiom 
The ball blue sold for laundry use 



consists of ultramarine. 



Balls or tablets 



of this sub are^ed b^-jg 

it with gl.u°°?V r 8'"" Whm * 1,lcose 

to become soft on JseepWl 
enc 



(.X LX\U Y V i 

alone is u*d\ ihepi; - ^ ten j. 
become soft on £^PJ"|' b pro per 
lcy ma y be counteract £ ^JJ^Pj 
proportion of « e xtnn. j cheapen 
sodium is added « » and the 

the P-duct the ^anmy. use d 

iffbi^ts 4 - pnceat 

whicl the product 19 to sell. 
LTphiae ^uti^co^tiining 10 per ceut 



of hydiogen sulphide are madeto flow 
quickly and with constant stirring into 
a heated solution of 20 parts of isatine 
anilide in 60 parts of alcohol. With 
spontaneous heating and temporary 
green and blue coloration, an immediate 
separation of indigo in small crystalline 
needles of a faint copper luster takes 
place. Boil for a short time, whereupon 
the indigo is filtered off, rewashed with 
alcohol, and dried. 

To Dye Feathers. — A prerequisite to 
the dyeing of feathers appears to be soft- 
ening them, which is sometimes accom- 
plished by soaking them in warm water, 
and sometimes an alkali, such as ammo- 
nium or sodium carbonate, is added. 
This latter method would apparently be 
preferable on account of the removal of 
any greasy matter that may be present. 

When so prepared the feathers may be 
dyed by immersion in any dye liquor. 
An old-time recipe for black is immersion 
in a bath of ferric nitrate suitably diluted 
with water, and then in an infusion of 
equal parts of logwood and quercitron. 
Doubtless an aniline dye would prove 
equally efficient and would be less trou- 
blesome to use. 

After dyeing, feathers are dipped in an 
emulsion formed by agitating any bland 
fixed oil with water containing a little 

Eotassiuin carbonate, arid are then dried 
y gently swinging them in warm air. 
This operation gives the gloss. 

Curling where required is effected by 
slightly warming the feathers before a 
fire, and then stroking with a blunt me- 
tallic edge, as the back of a knife. A 
certain amount of manual dexterity is 
necessary to carry the whole process to 
a successful ending. 

DYES FOR FOOD: 

See Foods. 

DYES FOR LEATHER: 

See Leather. 

DYE STAINS, THEIR REMOVAL 
FROM THE SKIN: 
See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

DYNAMITE : 

See Explosives. 

EARTHENWARE: 

See Ceramics. 

EAU DE QUININE: 
See Hair Preparations. 



EBONY: 
See Wood. 

EBONY LACQUER: 

Sec Lacquers. 

ECZEMA DUSTING POWDER Fao 
CHILDREN. K 

Starch, French chalk, lycopodiura, of 
each, 40 parts; bismuth subnitrate* 2 
parts; salicylic acid, 2 parts; menthol, 1 
part. Apply freely to the affected parts. 

Eggs 

The age of eggs may be approximately 
judged by taking advantage of the fact 
that as they grow old their density de- 
creases through evaporation of moisture. 
According to Sicbel, a new-laid egg 
placed in a vessel of brine made in the 
proportion of 2 ounces of salt to 1 pint of 
water, will at once sink to the bottom. 
An egg 1 day old will sink below the 
surface, but not to the bottom, while one 
3 days old will swim just immersed in 
the liquid. If more than 3 days old the 
egg will float, on the surface, the amount 
of shell exposed increasing with age; and 
if 2 weeks old, only a little of the shell 
will dip in the liquid. 

The New York State Experiment Sta- 
tion studied the changes in the specific 
gravity of the eggs on keeping and found 
that on an average fresh eggs had a 
specific gravity of 1.090; after they were 
10 days old, of 1.072; after 20 days, of 
1.053; and after 80 days, of 1.035. The 
test was not continued further. The 
changes in specific gravity correspond to 
the changes in water content. TV hen 
eggs arc kept they continually lose water 
by evaporation through the pores in the 
shell. After 10 days the average loss 
was found to be 1.00 per cent of the 
total water present in the egg when per- 
fectly fresh; after 20 days, 3.16 per cent; 
and after 30 days, 5 per cent. The aver- 
age temperature of the room where tne 
eggs were kept was 03.8° F. The evap- 
oration was found to increase somcwiiai 
with increased temperature, rsone o 
the eggs used in the 30-day test spoiieo. 

Fresh eggs are preserved in a numu 
of ways which may, for convenience, n 
grouped under two general classes: 



Use of low temperature, i. e., cold sto - 
age; and (2) excluding the air by costl ^ 
covering, or immersing the e £& s ' 
material or solution being used 
may or may not be a germicide 
two methods are often combined 



The 
The 




thod owes its value to the fact 
W Microorganisms, like larger forms 
*" i t life will not grow below a cer- 
of - P tpmoerature, the necessary degree of 

ta 'i j Irving * itil thc s P ecies - So £ar as 
c Iment shows, it is impossible to kill 
IS minute plants popularly called 
SSeria" or "germs," by any degree of 
U- and so, very low temperature is 
Pessary for preserving eggs, even if 
wire not undesirable for other reasons, 
it". Viv frppv.mc and ln- 



ciich as injury „ _ 
s ' - x According to a report of 



by freezing 
leased cost. Aceor 

the Canadian commission of agriculture 

and dairying: 

E S2 S are sometimes removed from the 
shells and stored in bulk, usually on a 
commercial scale, in cans containing 
about 50 pounds each The tempera- 
ture recommended is about 30 J}., or a 
little below freezing, and it is said they 
will keep any desired length of time. 
They must be used soon after they have 
been removed from storage and have 
been thawed. 

Water glass or soluble glass is the 
popular name for potassium silicate, or 
sodium silicate, the commercial article 
often being a mixture of the two. The 
commercial water glass is used for pre- 
serving eggs, as it is much cheaper 
than the chemically pure article which 
is required for many scientific pur- 
poses. Water glass is commonly sold in 
two forms, a syrup-thick liquid of about 
the consistency of molasses, and a pow- 
der. The thick syrup, the form perhaps 
most usually seen, is sometimes sold 
wholesale as low as If cents per pound 
in carboy lots. The retail price varies, 
though 10 cents per pound, according to 
tie North Dakota Experiment Station, 
seems to be the price commonly asked. 
According to the results obtaine'd at this 
station a solution of the desired strength 
™ preserving eggs may be made by dis- 
solving l part of the syrup-thick water 
W ft 111 10 P arts > by measure, of water, 
te ' ^r ater "^ ass powder is used, less is 
quired for a given quantity of water. 
[ uch of the water glass offered for sale 
taline - Such material should 
will l* S f ^' as tne e Sg s preserved in it 
8hm \a ' u ep weu - 0lH y P ure ^ ater 
and - t used !n making the solution, 
18 V 3t to boil it and cool it before 
l £*g with the water glass. 
h 0u i! e , solution should be carefully 
abl e 7 ° V ? r the e Sg s Packed in a suit- 
8 *eet j ■< wl " ch mus t be clean and 
Used " wooden ke^s or barrels are 
before ey ?^° uld be thoroughly scalded 
PacWi Pa ° % the c £g s in them. 
^ eggs sliould be stored in 



The 
a cool 



warm" «W? J™ P ^ aCed where i* « too 
warm, silicate deposits on the sh^ll »„A 

n n ?* kee a ^11. The North 

Dakota Experiment fetation found it best 
not to wash the eggs before packing „ 
this removes the natural muciSoS 
coating on the outside of the she 1 g The 
station states that 1 gallon of the solution 
is sufficient for 50 dozen eggs if they are 
properly packed. S 7 te 

It is, perhaps, too much to expect tha 
eggs packed in any way win De just ag 
satisfactory for table use as the fresh 
article. The opinion seems to be, how 
ever, that those preserved with wate 
glass are superior to most of those pre- 
served otherwise. The shells of eggs 
preserved in water glass are apt to crack 
m boiling. It is stated that this may be 
prevented by puncturing the blunt end 
of the egg with a pin before putting i 
into the water. 

To Discover the Age of Eggs.— T 

most reliable method of arriving at th 
age of hens' eggs is that by sped 
gravity. Make a solution of cooking sa 
(sodium chloride) in rain or distille 
water, of about one part of salt to tw 
parts of water, and in this place the eg 
to be tested. A perfectly fresh egg (o 
from 1 to 36 hours old) will sink com 
pletely, lying horizontally on the botto 
of the vessel; when from two to thr 
days old, the egg also sinks, but not to t 
bottom, remaining just below the su 
face of the water, with a slight tenden 
of the large end to rise. In eggs of fo 
or five days old this tendency of the lar 
end to rise becomes more marked, and 
increases from day to day, until at t 
end of the fifth day the long axis i of t 
egg (an imaginary line drawn throng 
tff center lengthwise) will stand at a 
angle of 20° from the per 
This ancle is increased dady, unttJ at ; t 
end of tL eighth day it is at abou 45 

end downward. , f ct & 

This action is b , a f ^ end of the eg 
the air cavity, m the big ena 

increases *»*°* n ^d$U. An a P 
to day, as the egg : «m™ ■ German 

paratus ^"ffe^rthi principl 
poultry f anciei ■) based Qf an eg 

and by means of whicn t * tuTe ma 
maintained at ? rd n 1 . n p ^ y to within a day, « 
be told aPF°. xl ^3e of degrees, draw 
made by pfacjng ^presentm 
rhr P e?;nVcularfbehindtheve SS 



as4 



EGGS 



taining the solution, and observing the 
angle made by the axis of the egg with 
the perpendicular line. This gives the 
age of the egg with great accuracy. 

Weights of Eggs.— The following 
xable shows the variation in weight be- 
tween eggs of the same family of chickens 
and of the comparative value of the 
product of different kinds of fowls: 

Weight of 
Whole Eggs, Shell, 

Grains Grains. Net. 

Common hen, amall . . 635 . 60 84 .86 550 . 54 

Common hen, mean. . 738.35 92.58 645.77 

Common hen, large.. 802.36 93.25 709.11 

Italian hen..' 840.00 92.50 747 50 

Honrlan 9o6.60 93.50 8^3.10 

faFlesche 926 50 94.25 835,25 

. ::::::::. 1,025.50 iw.86 910.64 

From this it will be seen that the 
Houdans and Brahmas are the most 
profitable producers, as far as food value 
of the product is concerned— provided, 
of course, they are equally prolific with 
the ordinary fowl. 

Another calculation is the number of 
eggs to the pound, of the various weights. 
This is as follows: 

Small ordinary eggs 

(635 grains) 12.20 to pound 

Large ordinary eggi 

(802 grains) if. 25 to pound 

Houdan eggs 8.0 to pound 

Brahma, mean .... 7.4 to pound 
Brahma, large 7.1 to pound 

Dried Yolk of Egg. — To prepare this, 
the yolks of eggs, separated from the 
whites, are thoroughly mixed with ^ 
their weight of water. The resulting 
emulsion is strained and evaporated 
under reduced pressure at a tempera- 
ture of 87° to 122° 1\, to a paste. _ The 
latter is fuither dried over quicklime or 
a similar absorbent of moisture, at a 
temperature of 77° to 86° i\, and ground 
to a fine powder. 

Egg Oil.— 

Yolks of eggs (about 

250) . . . . 5.0 parts 

Distilled water 0.3 parts 

Beat this together and heat the mass 
with constant stirring in a dish on the 
water bath until it thickens and a sample 
exhibits oil upon pressing between the 
fingers. Squeeze out between hot plates, 
mix the turbid oil obtained with 0.05 
parts of dehydrated Glauber's salt, shake 
repeatedly, and finally allow to settle. 
The oil, which must be decanted clear 
from the sediment, gives a .yield of at 
least 0.5 parts of egg oil. 



Artificial Egg Oil.— 

Yellow beeswax 0.2 parts 

Cacao oil 0.5 parts 

Melt on the water bath and gradually 
add 9 parts of olive oil. *' 

Egg Powder. — 

Sodium bicarbonate.. 8 ounces 
Tartaric acid. ....... 3 ounces 

Cream tartar. ....... 5 ounces 

Turmeric, powdered. 3 drachms 

Ground rice 16 ounces 

Mix and pass through a fine sieve. 
One teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful 
(according to article to be made), to be 
mixed with each half pound of flour. 

The Preservation of Eggs.— The spoil- 
ing of eggs is due to the entrance of air 
carrying germs through the shells. 
Normally the shell has a surface coating 
of mucilaginous matter, which prevents 
for a time the entrance of these harmful 
organisms into the egg. But if this coat- 
ing is removed or softened by washing or 
otherwise the keeping quality of the egj; 
is much reduced. These facts explain 
why many methods of preservation have 
not been entirely successful, and suggest 
that the methods employed should be 
based upon the idea of protecting and 
rendering more effective the natural coat- 
ing of the shell, so that air bearing the 
germs that, cause decomposition may Iw 
completely excluded. 

Eggs are often packed in lime, salt, or 
other products, or are put in cold storage 
for winter use, but such eggs are very fa* 
from being perfect when they come upon 
the market. German authorities declare 
that water glass more closely conforms 
to the requirements of a good preserva- 
tive than any of the substances com- 
monly employed. A 10 per cent solution 
of water glass is said to preserve eggs so 
effectually that at the end of three and 
one-half months eggs still appeared to be 
perfectly fresh. In most packed eggs the 
yolk settles to one side, and the egg ]S 
then inferior in quality. In eggs pre- 
served in water glass the yolk retainea 
its normal position in the egg, ana. m 
taste they were not to be distinguish 
from fresh, unpacked store eggs. 

Of twenty methods tested in German*, 
the three which proved mo.st efiectn 
were coating the eggs with vaseline, f> 
serving them in limewater, and preservi ^ 
them in water glass. The conclusion was 
reached that the last is preferab le, j 
cause varnishing the eggs with vasen . 
takes considerable time, and ** ea *kf 
them with limewater is likely to give u 
eggs a limy flavor. 




EGGS 



285 



mher methods follow: 

i Pjuj cuii be preserved for -winter 
h r coating them, when perfectly 
use b ^ T -|jj paraffiue. As the spores of 
freSC) . - wi0 c gg S almost as soon as 
fungi g j - t - 3 necessa ry to rub every 
^ *ith chloroform or wrap it a few 
c$$ *L i n a chloroform soaked rag be- 
^ Jinninrr it into the melted paraffine. 
IT 1 v 5 trace of the chloroform enters the 
Sell the development of such germs as 

t have gained access to freshly laid 
&S, J ; s prevented. The paraffine coating 
Eludes a jl future contamination from 
Bladen air, and with no fungi grow- 
jng within, they retam their freshness and 
natural taste. 

jj preserving with Lime. — Dissolve 

in each gallon of water 12 ounces of 
nuicklime, 6 ounces of common salt, 1 
drachm of soda, h drachm saltpeter, \ 
drachm tartar, and 1 \ drachms of borax. 
The fluid is brought into a barrel and 
sufficient quicklime to cover the bottom 
is then poured in. Upon this is placed a 
layer of eggs, quicklime is again thrown 
in and so on until the barrel is filled so 
that the liquor stands about 10 inches 
deep over the last layer of eggs. The 
barrel is then covered with a cloth, upon 
which is scattered some lime. 

III. — Melt 4 ounces of clear beeswax 
in a porcelain dish over a gentle fire, and 
stir in 8 ounces of olive oil. Let the 
solution of -wax in oil cool somewhat, then 
dip the fresh eggs one by one into it so 
as to coat every part of the shell. A 
momentary dip is sufficient, all excess of 
the mixture being wiped off with a cotton 
doth. The oil is absorbed in the shell, 
tne^vax hermetically closing all the pores. 

■IV- — The BeinhaTd method is said to 
cause such chemical changes in the sur- 
face of the eggshell that it is closed up 
Perfectly air-tight and an admittance of 
j" r is entirely excluded, even in case of 
«>ug-continued storing. The eggs are 
or a short time exposed to the direct 

serf ° f sul P hurIc acid > whereby the 
^ „ ce "f. tlle eggshell, which consists 

int C Z ^ me carbonate, is transformed 
into L*— 



of «. me s ™phate. The dense texture 




the e"» W i ue air ' whic ^ admits of storing 
contend \ ? a Very long tImef witll °ut the 
^ntaJo ll ? e eg 6 suffering any disad- 
°do r -t^ 3 chan ges regarding taste and 
s Peci'al t egS ^° es not re qnire an y 
^oilm™ atment to prevent cracking on 
J (?> etc, 



S 

*ulpt ob iect to this on the ground that 
lc aci d is a dangerous poison. 



thai, might, on occasIon> penetrate ^ 

pJc^& b a °^ ««■ and 

would chill the water leW S tl m W- M 

diafplv »„A ^ i A Wltll draw rmme- 
fJiately, and pack. Or p ut up, in Q il 

cylic acid. Eg gs treated in this wav are 
sa.d to taste alter six months, abTolutel? 
as fresh as they were when first put ul 
The eggs should be as fresh as possible, 
and should be thoroughly cleaS before 
dipping The philosophy of the process 
is that the dipping in boiling boric acid 
solution not only kills all bacteria exist- 

u ng ° n -' * r m> the slie11 aTtd membrane, 
but reinforces these latter by a very thin 
layer of coagulated albumen; while the 
packing in salicylatcd oil prevents the 
admission of fresh germs from the at- 
mosphere. Salicylic acid is objected to 
on the same grounds as sulphuric acid. 

VI. — Dissolve sodium silicate in boil- 
ing water, to about the consistency of a 
syrup (or about 1 part of the silicate tc 
3 parts water). The eggs should be as 
fresh as possible, and must be thoroughly 
clean. They should be immersed in the 
solution in such manner that every part 
of each egg is cover ed with the liquid, then 
removed and let dry. If the solution is 
kept at or near the boiling temperature, 
the preservative effect is said to be much 
more certain and to last longer. 



WONDERFUL EGG PRESERVER 
Water Glass (Sodium Silicate).— This 
preparation mixes readily with cold wa- 
ter on a basis of one part Water Glass 
to nine parts of water, and it is a won- 
derful egg preserver. There is no better 
or simpler preserver known. Water Glass 
is odorless and colorless. Eggs may be 
preserved with it for six ^nths °r a year 
and come out as good « *^*f egg 
After mixing the Water Glass wrf* 

pour onto the 
i. nlaced in a bucket, barrel or 

' As tte eggs - * «-? 

i n «late or cover over tne 
"J f o koepten, from floating. Eggs 
KT££Si should » kept in . onol 
place. 



S86 



ELECTROPLATING AND ELECTROTYPING 



for -woolen 
obtained by boiling 4 pounds 



ELAINE SUBSTITUTE. 

A substitute for elaine 
varus is obtain. — , 
Carrageen moss in 25 gallons water for 
8 hours. The soda is then put in and 
the boiling continued for another nalt hour; 
g pounds fleabane seeds are gradually 
added, and a little water to make up tor 
the evaporation. After a further l£ 
hours boiling, the extract is passed 
through a fine sieve and well mixed with 
25 pounds cottonseed oil, 18* pounds 
sweet oil, and 12} pounds ammonia 
solution of 0.96 specific gravity. Next 
day stir in 25 pounds saponified elaine 
and 13 pounds of odorless petroleum ot 
0.885 specific gravity. The resulting 
emulsion keeps well, dissolves perfectly 
in lukewarm water, and answers its pur- 
pose excellently. 

ELECTRODEPOSITION PROCESSES: 
See Plating. 

ELECTROLYSIS IK BOILERS: 

See Boiler Compounds. 

Electroplating and Electro- 
typing 

(See also Plating.) 

PROCESS OF ELECTROPLATING. 

First, clean the articles lo be plated. 
To remove grease, warm the pieces be- 
fore a slow fire of charcoal or coke, or in 
a dull red stove. Delicate or soldered 
articles should be boiled in a solution of 
caustic potash, the latter being dissolved 
in 10 times its weight of water. 

The scouring bath is composed of 100 
parts of water to from 5 to 20 parts of 
sulphuric acid. The articles may be 
put in hot and should be left in the 
bath till the surface turns to an ocher 
red tint. 

The articles, after having been cleansed 
of grease by the potash solution, must be 
washed in water and rinsed before being 
scoured. Copper or glass tongs must 
then be used for moving the articles, as 
they must not afterwards be handled. 
For small pieces, suitable earthenware 
or porcelain strainers may be used. 

The next stage is the spent nitric acid 
bath. This consists of nitric acid weak- 
ened by previous use. The articles are 
left m until the red color disappears, so 
that after rinsing they show a uniform 
metallic tint. The rinsing should be 
thoroughly carried out. 
_ Having been well shaken and drained, 
the articles are next subjected to the 



strong nitric acid bath, which is made im 
as follows: U P 

Nitric acid of 36° Be. . 100 volumes 
Chloride of sodium 

(common salt) \ volume 

Calcined soot (lamp- 
black) 1 volume 

The articles must be immersed in this 
bath for only a few seconds. Avoid o ver 
heating or using too cold a bath. They 
are next rinsed thoroughly with cold water 
and are again subjected to a strong nitric 
acid bath to give them a bright or dull 
appearance as required. 

To produce a bright finish, plunge 
them for a few seconds (moving them 
about rapidly at the same time) in a cold, 
bath of the following composition: 

Nitric acid 100 volumes 

Sulphuric acid 100 volumes 

Chloride of sodium.. . 1 volume 
Again rinse thoroughly in cold water. 
The corresponding bath giving a dull 
or matt appearance is composed of: 

Nitric acid 200 volumes 

Sulphuric acid 100 volumes 

Sea salt.. 1 volume 

Sulphate of zinc. . . 1 to 5 volumes 

The duration of immersion in this bath 
varies from 5 to 20 minutes, according to 
the dullness required. Wash with plenty 
of water. The articles will then have an 
unpleasant appearance, which will disap- 
pear on plunging them for a moment into 
the brightening bath and rinsing quickly. 

The pieces are next treated with the 
nitrate of mercury bath for a few seconds, 

Plain water 10,000 parts 

Nitrate of mercury 10 parts 

Sulphuric acid 20 parts 

It is necessary to stir this bath before 
using it. For large articles the propor- 
tion of mercurv should be greater, AJ 
article badlv cleaned will conic out m 
and lacking its metallic 



various shades auu 1 a^*+.& — . 
brightness. It is better to throw a spent 
bath away than attempt to strengthen , Jj 
The various pieces, after having passea 



through these several processes, 
ready for the plating bath. •,.;„„ 
A few words on tie subject of p W«J 
may not be amiss. Small articles [ are giw 
hot, large ones cold. The cold cyan de 
of gold and potassium bath is compo^ 
as follows: 

Distilled water..... 10,000 parts 

^tassTnl 1 ^ 0 ^ 0 : mparts 

iwom::::::::. wo,** 

The gold, transformed into <-W°- g J 
is dissolved in 2,000 parts oi wax 



ELECTROPLATING AND ELECTROTYPING 



n ;j e in 8,000 parts. The two so- 
th e , C J are then mixed and boiled for 

["Vfan hour. . , , . 

The anode must be entirely submerged 
f e brth, suspended from platinum 
* D . end withdrawn immediately the 
Srfa "nt of action. 

TT n + Gold Bath.— Zinc, tin, lead, 
JimoJiy and the alloys of these metals 
are better if previously covered with 

C °^jie'following are the formulas for the 
other metals per 10,000 parts of distilled 

^Crystallized phosphate of soda, G00 
parts"; alloys rich in copper castings, 500 

^Bisulphide of soda, 100 parts; alloys 
rich in copper, 125 parts.. 

Pure cyanide of potassium, 1U parts; 
alloys rich in copper, 5 parts. Pure gold 
transformed into chloride, 10 parts; alloys 
rich in copper, 10 parts. 

Dissolve the phosphate of soda hot in 
8,001) parts water, let the chloride of gold 
cool in 1,000 parts water; mix little by 
little the second solution with the first; 
dissolve the cyanide and bisulphide in 
1,000 parts water and mix this last solu- 
tion with the other two. The tempera- 
ture of the bath may vary between 122° 
and 175° F. 

Silvering. — Por amateurs a bath, of 10 
jarts silver per 1,000 is sufficient. Dis- 
solve 150 parts nitrate of silver, equiva- 
lent to 100 parts pure silver, in 10,000 
parts of water and add 250 parts pure 
cyanide of potassium. Stir it up until 
completely dissolved, and then filter the 
solution, Silvering is generally effected 
cold, except in the case of small articles, 
fnm, steel, zinc, lead, and tin are better 
w previously copper-plated and then 
^vered hot. The cl eaned articles are 
arst treated in a nitrate of mercury bath, 
vifi C0Ilt inually in motion. 
With excess of current the pieces be- 
come gray, an d blacken. In the cold 
l anodes of platinum or silver should 
^ employed. Old baths are, in this 
r^ e '. Preferable to new. They may, if 
tS, Utt . e J' he artificially aged by the addi- 
*otua % parts iu 1,000 of lic l uid am " 

weak bC n- n -° de blacIcens . the tatn is to ° 
m u i ' lr !t becomes white, there is too 
rauwl GUr rent, and the deposit, being too 
Wiak not adhere - The deposit may 
a Hode K aS norr nal and regular when the 
of ^ ber °mes gray during the passage 
c easea t C Q0 rent an d white again when it 

he nickel vat should be of glass. 



287 

porcelain, or earth Pnwo »„ 



sninhT+^^Y n01 dls t llle d water, nickel 
sulphate and ammonium, free from ox 

The proportion of salt to dissolve is i 
partly weight, to 10 of water A 

for e use° g an<J bath is then read y 
When the bath is ready and the bat- 
tery set up, the wires from the latter are 
joined by binding screws to two metal bais 
resting on the edge of the vat. The bar 
joined to the positive pole of the battery 
supports, through the intervention of a 
nickel-plated copper hook, a plate of 
nickel, constituting the soluble anode, 
winch restores to the bath the metal de- 
posited on the cathode by the electro- 
lytic action. From the other bar are 
suspended the articles to be plated. 
These latter should be well polished be- 
fore being put into the bath. To remove 
all grease, scrub them with brushes soaked 
in a hot solution of whiting, boiled ii 
water and carbonate of soda. 

Copper and its alloys are cleaned well 
in a few seconds by immersion in a bath 
composed of 10 parts, by weight, of water, 
and 1 part of nitric acicL For rough ar- 
ticles, 2 parts water, 1 nitric acid, and 3 
sulphuric acid. For steel and polishec 
castings, 100 parts water to 1 sulphurh 
acid. The articles should remain in th( 
bath until the whole surface is of a uni- 
form gray tint. They are then rubbed 
with powdered pumice stone till the solid 
metal appears. Iron and steel castings 
are left in the bath for three or ton 
hours and then scrubbed with well-sifte< 

Sa if the current be too strong, the nick* 
is deposited gray or even black. Ai 
hour or so is time enough to render tne 
^sufficiently .thick and in » 
to stand polling. When the article 

du ¥o P oii S h *• ^?£BtfsM 

taken in one ^ J ^ « D - rf ^ 
backward and orwa^rd on £ 

soaked in P 0l » sn in » £ rTn i v fi xe d at one 

wa r- thfe»- Th ? 

end and held in ijjc means of 

hollow parts are P oll ? h * V/ d on sticks, 
cloth pads of various sgesfixed^ ^ 

These pads must be ™P£ Thc art i- 
cles, when well onfe te and tne 

1° A3! and finally dried in m~ 
dust. 



ELECTROTYPING— EMBALMING FLUIDS 



288 

SOME NOTES ON ELECTROTYPING, 

s plating, and gilding. 

The first step in the process is the prep- 
aration of the mold. The substance 
JSSnaHy used for the construction of 
SS™ Poster of Paris. This B ub- 
is however, porous and must be 
The materials 



stance ~ 

rendered impermeable. 




hollow molds it is a good plan to arrange 
an internal skeleton of platinum, for 
ultimate connection with the anodes m 
order to secure a good electrical contact 
with all parts of the mold. _ When cov- 
ering several pieces at once, it is as wtll to 
connect each of them with the negative 
pole by an iron or lead wire of suitable 
dimensions. ' . , 

Having prepared the molds in the 
usual way — by obtaining an impression 
in the material when soft, and allowing 
it to set — they should be given a metallic 
coating on their active surfaces of pure 
powdered plumbago applied with a 
polishing brush. 

Fot delicate and intricate objects, the 
wet process is most suitable. It consists 
in painting the object with two or more 
coats of nitrate of silver and ultimately 
reducing it by a solution of phosphorus 
in bisulphide of carbon. 

The plating baths are prepared as 
follows : 

A quantity of water is put in a jar and 
to it is added from 8 to 10 parts in 100 
of sulphuric acid, in small quantities, 
stirring continually in order to dissipate 
the heat generated by the admixture of 
acid and water. Sulphate of copper 
(Milestone) is then dissolved in the 
acidulated water at the normal tempera- 
ture until it will take up no more. The 
solution is always used cold and must be 
maintained in a saturated condition by 
the addition of copper sulphate crystals 
or suitable anodes. 

For use it should be poured into vessels 
of clay, porcelain, glass, hard brown 
earthenware, or incia rubber. For 
large baths wood may be used, lined on 
the interior with an impervious coating 
of acid-proof cement, india rubber, 
marine glue, or even varnished lead 
sheets. 

If the solution be too weak and the 
current on the other hand be too strong, 
the resulting deposit will be of a black 
color. If too concentrated a solution 
and too weak a current be employed, a 
crystalline deposit is obtained. To in- 
sure a perfect result, a happy medium in 
all things is necessary. 



During the process of depesitin 
pieces should be moved about in th 'v. i 
as much as possible in order tr> ttl 
the homogeneity of the liquid P T?^ e 
be not attended to, stratification I I 
circulation of the liquid h P rodu ced if 
the decomposition of the anode 7^ ^ 
rendered visible by the appe ara 15 
long, vertical lines on the cathode* 06 °* 
For amateurs and others perform^ 
small and occasional experiments \h 
following simple apparatus will be ser 
viceable. Place the solution of sulphate 
of copper in an earthenware or porcelain 
jar, m the center of which is a porous pot 
containing amalgamated zinc and a solu 
tion of sulphuric acid and water about 
% or 3 parts in 100. At the top of the 
zinc a brass rod is fixed, supporting a 
circle, of the same metal, the diameter of 
which is between that of the containing 
vessel and the porous pot From this 
metallic circle the pieces are suspended 
in such a manner that the parts to be 
covered are turned toward the porous 
pot. Two small horsehair bags filled 
with copper sulphate crystals are sus- 
pended in the solution to maintain its 
saturation. 

ELM TEA. 

Powdered slippery 

elm bark 2 teaspoonfuls 

(or the equiva- 
lent in whole bar) 

Boiling water 1 cup 

Sugar, enough. 
Lemon juice, enough. 
Pour the water upon the bark. When 
cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice 
and add sugar. This is soothing in case 
of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

EMBALMING FLUIDS. 

Success in the use of any embalming 
fluid depends largely on manipulation, 
an important part of the process being 
the thorough removal of fluid from the 
circulatory system before undertaKuig 
the injection of the embalming liquia. 

L — Solution zinc 
chloride (U, S. 

P.) " 

Solution sodium 

chloride 6 

ounces to pint. 
Solution mercury 

bichlor i d e , 1 

ounce to pint". . 4 pin" 

Alcohol 4P lDtS 

Carbolic acid 

G ,1E:::::::^S^' 



1 gallon 
6 pints 



EMBALMING FLUIDS — EMULSIITERS 



and carbolic acid, 



the glycerine 
Wl?L il the other ingredients, when a 
t heI1 h.tion of 3 gallons results, which 
clef s0 "" amount for a body weigh- 

150 pounds, 
"ft Arsenious acid... 100 parts 
IL Sodium hydrate . 50 parts 

Carbolic acid and water, ot each 
a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the arsenious acid and the 
J In 140 parts of water by the aid of 
soda in r golution 1S co ld, drop 

h hnlic acid into it until it becomes 
carbolic ^ ; flrioMtf add wa ter until 



- j psre nt, and finally add water 
£fi£tod product measures 700 parts. 

JiT.— Salicylic acid 

Boric acid 

Potassium c a r - 
bonate 

Oil of cinnamon . 

Oil of cloves 

Glycerine 

Alcohol 12 ounces 

Hot water . . 12 ounces 

Dissolve the first 3 ingredients in the 
water and glycerine, the oils m the 
alcohol, and mix the solutions. 
IV.— Thymol 15 grains 

Alcohol. 



4 drachms 

5 drachms 

1 drachm 
3 drachms 
3 drachms 
5 ounces 



Glycerine. 10 



£ ounce 
ounces 
ounces 



Water. 

V.— Cooking salt. .... 500 parts 

Alum 750 parts 

Arsenious acid. . . 350 parts 

Zinc chloride. . . . 120 parts 

Mercury chloride 90 parts 
Forma 1 d e h y d e 

solution, 40 per 

cent 6,000 parts 

Water, up to.. . . . 24,000 parts 

VI.— Arsenious acid. .. . 360 grains 
Mercuric chloride. 1J ounces 

Alcohol 9 ounces 

Sol, ac. carbolic, 5 

percent 120 ounces 

From 10 to 12 pints are injected into 
me carotid artery— at first slowly and 
afterwards at intervals of from 15 to 30 
^unites. 

^ERALD (IMITATION): 

0e e Gems, Artificial. 
EMERY: 

Re S met y. Grinder. —Shellac, melted to- 
^l lx emeT y and fixed to a short 
open" FC T' forms the grinder used for 
v Uln g the holes in enameled watch dials 



wit 

O" 



289 

The grinder is reshaped by heati™ 
shellac and molding ?he mLs whSI if 
m a plastic condition. 

Preparing Emery for Lapping: — T 
prepare emery for lapping screw-gage- 
plugs, etc, fill a half-pint bottle w << 
machine oil and flour emery 7 parts 
to 1 part emery, by bulk. Mix thorough! 
and l.et stand for 20 minutes to settl 
Take the bottle and pour off one-half th 
contents without disturbing the settling 
The portion poured off contains only t 
finest emery and will never scratch t" 
work. 

For surface lapping put some flo 
emery in a linen bag and tie up clos 
with _ a string. Dust out the emery 
striking the bag against the surface plat 
use turpentine for rough lapping and * 
dry surface plate for finishing. 

Removing Glaze from Emery Wh.ee 
— If the wheel is not altogether too har 
it can sometimes be remedied by red 
ing the face of the wheel to about $ inc 
or by reducing the speed, or by bo 
Emery wheels should be turned off 
that they will run true before using, 
wheel that glazes immediately after it 
has been turned off, can sometimes be 
corrected by loosening the nut, and al- 
lowing the wheel to assume a slightly 
different position, when it is again tight- 
ened. 

Emery Substitute.— For making arti- 
ficial emery, 1,(534 parts of thefollowmg 
substances may be employed: Seven kin- 
dred and fifty-nine parts of bauxite , 700 
parts of coKe, and 96 parts of a flu , wh ch 
may be a carbonate of lime, of potasti, 
SrVaoda, preferably carbonate of h»e 
on account of its low price 
terials are arranged^ ^ejnjtel^J 



draught. They^rewid^dan. 
ficial emery similar to *^ na TU 
of Smyrna and Naxos, and at Jow c 

EMULSIFIERS: Emulsifier ._The 
Rosm Soap aB an ho :j; n2 gently 
soap should be ^ebybff^ J 
for 2 houp m an ey»PO Q 
mixture of 1,800 g iL flu£douI1C es water, 
caustic soda with m te5 as a 

Upon cooling, the *° a ? ° in p ed fro m the 
ye P low mass, which is drain & 

liquid, ^« e .f? d d ^ e and Wable. Fixed 




EMULSIFIERS— ENAMELING 



to a solution of 10 grains soap in 1 ounce 
water. Volatile oils require 10 grains 
rosin soap, 2| ounces water, and 8 
drachms oil. Creosote requires double 
this amount of soap. Thymol may be 
rendered miscible with water by dis- 
solving IS grains together with 20 grains 
soap in 3 fluidounces alcohol, then add- 
ing enough water to make 6 fluidounces. 
Of course many other substances may be 
emulsified with the same emulsifier. 

Yolk of Egg as an Emulsifier.— The 
domestic ointment of Unona, consistingof 
a mixture of oil and yolk of egg, is mis- 
cible in all proportions with water. It is 
proposed to utilize this fact by substitu- 
ting a diluted ointment for the gum 
emulsions in general use, the following 
being given as a general formula: 

Yolk of egg 10 parts 

Balsam Peru 1 to 2 parts 

Zinc oxide 5 to 10 parts 

Distilled water.. . . 100 parts 

If desired, 33 parts of vinegar may be 
substituted for the same amount of water, 
while oil of cade, oil of birch, lianthral or 
storax may be substituted for the balsam 
Peru, and an equal quantity of talc, mag- 
nesium carbonate, sulphur of bismuth 
subcarbonate, may be introduced in 
place of the oxide of zinc. A further 
variation in the character of the liquid 
may be introduced by the use of medi- 
cated or perfumed waters instead of the 
plain distilled water. Where so diluted, 
as in the above formula, the yolk of egg 
separates out after long standing, but the 
mixture quickly reemulsifies upon shaking. 
Tar and balsams can be emulsified by 
mixing with double their quantity of yolk 
of egg, then diluting by the addition of 
small quantities of water or milk. 

Emulgen.— This emulsifying agent has 
tne following composition : Gl uten , 5 ; gum 
dcacia, 5; gum tragacanth, 20; glycerine 
20; water, 50; alcohol, 10. This mixture 
forms a clear grayish jelly. 

EMULSIONS OF PETROLEUM: 
See Petroleum. 



Enameling 

(See also Ceramics Glazes, Paints, 
Waterproofing, and Varnishes.) 

COMMERCIAL ENAMELING. 

Commercial enameling includes: (1) 
follow ware enameling for domestic use 
W aoll °w ware enameling for chemical 



use; (3) enameling locomotive an^ u. 
tubes; (4) enameling drain aid 
pipes; (5) signboard enameling T 

There is one defect to which all ehftt * . , 
ware is subject, and that is cW*? 1 el 
This may be caused by (1 ) 
mixing of the enamels; 2) imperfect %f 
ing; (3) imperfect pickling of the i^T 
(4) rough usage, feth ofdinary^a 
well-enameled article has been Wr* 
to last m daily use for 10 or 12 V es^ 
whereas defective enameling say o 
sign tablet— which is exempffrom'rouH 
usage— may not have a life exceedi™ 
a few months. All enameled articles 
such as hollow ware and sign tablets' 
first receive a coating of a composition 
chiefly composed of glass called "gray " 
and this is followed by a deposit of 
"white," any additional color required 
being laid above the white. In the mix- 
ing and depositing of these mixtures lie 
the secrets of successful enameling. The 
"gray" has to be fused not only on. but 
also into the metal at a bright red— al- 
most white — heat, and it is obvious that 
its constituents must be arranged and 
proportioned to expand and contract in a 
somewhat uniform manner with the iron 
itself. The "white" has to be fused on 
the surface of the gray, but the gray 
being much harder is not affected by the 
second firing. If it were liquid it would 
become mixed with the white and de- 
stroy its purity. Frequently, owing to 
inferior chemicals, imperfect mixing or 
fusing, a second coating of white is nec- 
essary, in order to produce a surface of 
the necessary puritj- and luster. The 
difficulties of enameling are thus easily 
understood. Unless the metals and 
chemicals are so arranged and manip- 
ulated that their capacities of expansion 
and contraction are approximately the 
same, inferior work will be produced. 
Oxide of iron on the surface of the plates, 
inferior chemicals, incorrect mixings, 
insufficient or overheating in the process 
of fusing, prevent that chemical combi- 
nation which is essential to successful 
enameling. The coatings will be im 
on and not combined, with the result that 
there will be inequalities in expansion 
and contraction which will cause tu 
enamel to chip off immediately " suo- 
mitted to anything approaching rougj 
usage, and in a very short time " s 
mitted to chemical or ordinary atm° s 
pheric conditions. , . . . + k e 

The manufacture of sign tablets is xu 
simplest form to which this important » 
is adapted. Sign-tablet enameling 
however, kept as great a secret an - 
other type. This branch of the industry 




ENAMELING 



. a„A UP as follows: (1) Setting the 
U 6W (0) scaling and pickling the plates; 
plate s ,> t*J he ename I constituents; (4) 
enamel constituents; (5) grind - 
ujelti Dgi « d const ituents; (6) applying 
jng tlie i. (-7) drying the enamel coat- 
Sfre ^fusing the enamel o'l the ar- 
(?) lettering— including alphabet- 



other drawing, spacing, and 
" stencil 
stencil metal; 



^Jc ^^arrangement; " (MM 
cutting 
brand 166 



paper and 
ctt T? ,, s hinff- (12) refusing. Distinctive 
C^ETthS work have distinctive 
braB r fs the arrangement being generally 
e TiWs- Nos. 1 and 2 may or may not 
as ' • led- Nos. 3 and 5 may or may 
mbined; Nos. 4, 7, 8, and 12 



not be ooi 
generally e 
work of girls^J 

andVys 0 * The twelve processes,^ there- 



^erally combined; No. 6 generally the 
S To oris- Nos. 9 and 10 generally com- 
No 11 generally the work of girls 



fate require six classes of trained work- 
people and incompetence or carelessness 
at any section can onlv result m imper- 
fect plates or "wasters." 

A brief description of these processes 
will enable the reader to understand the 
more detailed and technical description to 
follow, and is, therefore, not out of place. 
Ordinary iron sheets will do for the man- 
ufacture of sign tablets; but a specially 
prepared charcoal plate can be had at a 
slightly increased price. The latter type 
is the best, for in many cases the scaling 
and pickling may, to a certain extent, be 
dispensed with. To make this article, 
however, as complete as possible, we 
shall begin from the lowest rung of the 
Manufacturing ladder — i. e., from the 
first steps in the working of suitable iron. 

h— Setting. — The plates may be _ re- 
ceived in sheets, and cut to the required 
S!z e at the enameling factory, or, what is 
aore general, received in sizes according 
j? specification. The former are more 
j e to have buckled slightly or become 
sSu and have t0 be restored to a 

™°?th and uniform surface by ham- 

seem e -° n ^ flat platc " The operation 
. s simple, but an inexperienced oper- 

»ired n,ay f ntiTel y faI1 to produce the de- 
*ith t l esultl and » it he does succeed, it is 
hine A ex P endi ture of a great amount of 
tiv e l vf e JP e rt setter with compara- 
^imn f well -^irected strokes brings 
le ss | ,, ect P late into truth and in readi- 
Uf the next operation. 

tieali^f 1 ^ and Pickling.— The an- 

U ispt,= ii. e s heets in special furnaces 
--.-"s the seal 



e, which can then be 
after which immersion 



Firing to a red heat follows ar,<* +W. 
lasr. traces oi acid are removed hv rTtriS 

may follow, and ^ZlLt%^ a^S 
feet and chemically clean surface. P 

*J L 7 Mixin # ) he Enamel Constitu- 
a^I *~~^^° Uri<r ' n foundation, or gray.-* 
All articles, whether hollow ware or 
plates, are operated upon in a very 
similar manner. Both require the foun- 
dation coating generally called "gray.' 1 
The gray constituents vary considerably 
m different manufactures; but as regards 
the use of lead, it is universally con- 
ceded that while it may in many in- 
stances _ be used with advantage in the 
enameling of sign tablets, etc., it should 
under no circumstances be introduced 
into the coating of articles for culinary 
purposes, or in which acids are to be 
used. The first successful commercial 
composition of this covering was: Cullet 
(broken glass), carbonate of soda, and 
boracic acid. This composition re- 
mained constant for many years, bat 
ultimately gave place to the following: 
Cullet, red lead, borax, niter. The borax 
and red lead form the fluxes, while the 
niter is to "purify" the mass. Some of 
the later mixings consist of the follow- 
ing: Silica powder, crystallized or cal- 
cium borax, white lead, fused together. 
This would be called a frit, and with it 
should be pulverized powdered silica, 
clay, magnesia. This recipe is one re- 
quiring a very high temperature for 
fusing? Silica powder, borax, fused and 
ground with silica, clay, magnesia. Ibis 
Requires a slightly lower tempera „ e 
Frit of silica powder borax, feldspar 
fused togetherf and then .ground with 

consmuenf ^ Wer b ? t ^ 
must always be remember? 
hard-and-fast hue can be 
Chemicals vary in Pj^^.grind- 
V ary in temperature th £oimd g g 
ing, and fixing aj^ o & 
alike, and each o : these e „ 
influence on the character o to 
These compositions may ^JVl d& 
the metal either in l the fonno 
or of a liquid. Some i e J ^ use> but 
powder coating * as "n - d form iS in 

It the pwg^^iS? easier of «- 
favor, as it is coi . . a coat ng 



rul 



292 



ENAMELING 



solution, and the powder then carefully 
dusted through a sieve over the suri ace. 
In this condition the plate is submitted 
to the fusing process. In using the liquid 
material the plate surface is dipped into 
or has the liquid mixing carefully P° ure <i 
over it, any surplus being drained off, and 
any parts which are not to be coated being 
wiped clean by a cloth. The coating is 
then dried in suitable stoves, after which 
H is ready for fusing on to the iron. The 
gray coating should be fairly uniform and 
smooth, free from holes or blisters, and 
thoroughly covering every part of the iron 
which is to be subjected to any outside 
influence. Cooling slowly is important. 
Rapid cooling frequently causes chipping 
of the coating, and in any case it will 
greatly reduce the tenacity of the con- 
nection existing between the glaze and 
the metal. 

Generally the next surface is a white 
one, and it depends upon the class of 
article, the character of the enamels, and 
the efficiency of application, whether 
one coat or two will be required. Rough- 
ly speaking, the coating is composed of a 
glass to which is added oxide of tin, 
oxide of lead, or some other suitable 
opaque white chemical. The mixture 
must be so constituted as to fuse at a 
lower temperature than the foundation 
covering. If its temperature of fusion 
were the same the result would be that 
the gray would melt on the iron and 
become incorporated with the white, 
thus loosening the attachment of the 
mass to the iron and also destroying the 
purity of the white itself. Bone ash is 
sometimes used, as it becomes uniformly 
distributed throughout the melt, and re- 
mains in suspension instead of settling. 
l3one ash and oxide of lead are, however, 
in much less demand than oxide of tin. 
The lead is especially falling into dis- 
favor, for the following reasons: Firstly, 
it requires special and laborious treat- 
ment; secondly, it gives a yellowish- 
white color; thirdly, it cannot resist the 
action of acids. The following is a 
recipe which was in very general use for 
some years: Glass (cullet), powdered 
flint, lead, soda (crystals), niter, arsenic. 
Another consists of the following: Borax, 
glass, silica powder, oxide of tin, niter, 
soda, magnesia, clay. These are fused 
together, and when being ground a 
mixture of Nos. 1, 3, 7, and boracic acid 
is added. 

Enamel mixings containing glass or 
china are now generally in use, although 
for several years the experience of man- 
ufacturers using glass was not satisfac- 
tory Improved compositions and work- 



ing now make this constituent a , 
useful, and, in fact, an almost ° 3 * 
element. The glass shtdA?^ 
broken glass, and as uniform in 7? 6 
acter as possible, as colored class * *?j 
impart a tinge of its own color M 1 
mixing. L0 tJ ae 

The following are two distinct gl a2es 
which do not contain glass or ooreelni 
Feldspar, oxide of tin, niter, sod : 



Th 



is 
re- 



is free from any poisonous body and 
quires no additions: Silica powder oxiH 
of tin, borax, soda, niter, carbonate of 
ammonia, or magnesia. 

Alkalies.— Of the alkalies which are 
necessary to produce complete fusion of 
and combination with the quartz, soda 
is chiefly applied in enamel manufac- 
tures, as the fusing temperature is then 
lower. 

Bone Ash. — This material will not add 
opacity, but only_ semi-transparency to 
the enamel, and is therefore not much 
used. 

Boracic Acid. — Boracic acid is some- 
times substituted for silicic acid, but 
generally about 15 per cent of the former 
to 85 per cent of the latter is added. 
Borax as a flux is, however, much more 
easily used and is therefore largely em- 
ployed in enamel factories. 

Borax. — Calcined borax, that is, borax 
from which a large proportion of the 
natural moisture has been eliminated, is 
best for enamel purposes. It is a fliix 
that melts at medium heat, and enters 
into the formation of the vitreous basis. 
Borax has also the property of thorough- 
ly distributing oxide colors in the enamels. 

Clay.— Only a fairly pure clay can be 
used in enamel mixings, and the varieties 
of clay available are therefore limited. 
The two best are pipe— or white— clay 
and china clay— kaolin. The latter is 
purer than the former, and in -addition to 
acting as a flux, it is used to increase tfle 
viscosity of mixings and therefore tne 
opacity. It is used in much the sam 
way as oxide of tin. 

Cryolite.— Ground cryolite is^a white 

closely 



mineral, easily fusible, and sometimes 



used in enamel mixings. It is 
associated with aluminum- , . 

Cullet.— This is the ge" era ^ ma S fl 
used as a basis. CI ear glass only snou 
be introduced; and as the comppsir i 
of glass vary greatly, small esperim« 
frits should always be made to arm 
the correct quantity to be added. 

Feldspar.— The introduction ot ^ 
spar into an enamel frit i n ? rea ^ ietv ia 
sistency. The common white \& 




n„ used, and its preliminary treat- 
gener aJy p 0 unding is similar to that 

*f rfcdVSh quartz- _ 
a doP lcu j n t l us mineral we have 

FIU flux, 'which fuses at a red heat * 
another are f or the purpose of 



ENAMELING 

tal, and flint ston 



&93 



theTempcrature of fusion of a 

jegulating some being better adapted 

"^Kurpose than others. This, how- 
fo is not the only consideration, for 



ever> i lS rL ter of the flux depends upon 
the mnosition or chemical changes to 
%ch ?he ingVedients are to be subjected. 



are 



borax, clays, Cutlet, 
urn, and fluor- 



jJjfjSd, and soda or potash 
% glass is to form the hard, crystal-like 



Plain, feldspar, gyps 

Spal "' s —Glass is composed of lime, si- 
QnHa orootash. The use of 

ss is 
foundation. 

Gvpsttni.— This mineral is sometimes 
u S ed in conjunction with baryta and 
fluor-spar. 

Lead.— Crystallized carbonate of lead, 
or "lead white," is frequently used m 
enamels when a low temperature for 
fusion is required. It should never be 
used on articles to be submitted to chem- 
ical action, or for culinary use. Minium 
is a specially prepared oxide of lead, and 
suitable for enameling purposes, but is 
expensive. 

Lime.— Lime is in the form o£ carbon- 
ate of calcium when used. 

Magnesium Carbonate is used only in 
sail quantities in enamel mixings. It 
necessitates a higher temperature for 
fusion, but does not affect the color to the 
slightest extent if pure. 

Manganese.— As a decolorant, this 
Mineral is very powerful, and therefore 
small quantities must be used. 

urity of the mineral is essential — i. e., 
t should contain from 96 to 98 per cent 
01 binoxide of manganese. 
E ^ ter -~-At a certain temperature niter 
affA S ? chemical change, which, when 

ents, 



°usbase lStS ^ ^ formatio11 of the vitre- 

1 aiii°iq elaill, ^"^ T ' 0 ^ e11 unc °l° re d porce- 
vf actu 5ome T ^ mes use d in enamel man- 
cliiu a composition: Quartz, 

viscosity y ' ^ e ldspar. It increases 

Sef p if^ T ' — This decolorant is some- 
'iterferp . P urifier * It will, however, 
Hi w l w ?th certain coloring media, 
^ono/k 1 v 1 s is tne case its use should 
ft .. Le b e discontinued. 



C1C Acid -~ Quartz, eand, rock crys- I ?0 



acid in crystallized forrn R^f <& ^ 8 
practically infusible bS' it cln lf ? 18 
parated with other materials t fS 

ingsoda. TheuCripeaSTSl 
pared, so as to free it almost entity 
from iron and admit of the production of 
a pure white enamel when such is re- 
quired. 

Tin Oxide.— All enamels must contain 
white ingredients to produce opacity, 
and the most generally used is oxide of 
tin. By itself it cannot be fused, but 
with proper manipulation it becomes 
diffused throughout the enamel mass. 
On the quantity added depends the 
denseness. or degree of opacity imparted 
to the enamel. 

It will be understood that the enamel 
constituents are divided into four dis- 
tinct groups : I. Fundamental media. 
II. Flux media. III. Decolorant media, 
IV. Coloring media. We have briefly 
considered the three first named, and we 
will now proceed to No. IV. The color- 
ing material used is in every case a 
metallic oxide, so that, so far as this goes, 
the coloring of an enamel frit is easy 
enough. Great care is, however, neces- 
sary, and at times many difficulties 
present themselves, which can only be 
overcome by experience. Coloring ox- 
ides are very frequently adulterated, and 
certain kinds of the adulterants are in- 
jurious to the frit and to the finish of the 
color. 

Comparison of Hollow Ware and Sign- 
Tablet Enameling. -The enameling or 
sign tablets 

hollow ware; the mix W *Y>,S mixineM 
alike, but, as a ^ M ^&Sd forS«i 
applied in • ^^X^dth-t 
the latter. It is easy iu receives 
hollow ware » By handling, 

rougher v^^^^iol expansion, 
it is submitted to ^W^fte to falls, 
and more or less l™}™ ce t £ eie fore, tb« 
knocks, etc., and n«less Q± 

enamel coatingf^^^ C0I1; 
the metal due to tnes ^ becom< 
nection between the z ]&ce> 
loosened and f thouA mud 

The enamel, wererore, s houId be 
alike for both Jjn^S that it will 
prepared for J°» l0 ^ ding the changes , 



distributed over the iron, and the greater 
will be its adherence to the iron, .Any 
article heavily enameled is always liable 
to chip, especially if submitted to the 
slightest bending action, and therefore 
any excess of material added to a plate 
means that it will always be readily 
liable to separate from the plate. In 
hollow-ware enameling the preparation 
of each frit generally receives somewhat 
more attention than for plate enameling. 
The grinding is more effectively carried 
out, m order to remove almost every 
possibility of roughness on any part of 
the surface, especially the inside surface. 

The iron used in tablet and hollow- 
A-are manufacture is rolled sheet iron. 
It is supplied in a variety of qualities. 
Charcoal iron is purer than ordinary 
plate iron, more ductile, and therefore 
capable of being driven out to various 
forms and depths by stamping presses. 
The surface of the charcoal iron is not so 
liable to become oxidized, and therefore 
can be more readily made chemically 
clean for the reception of the enamels. 
Some manufacturers use charcoal plates 
for tablet work, but these are expensive; 
the ordinary plates, carefully pickled 
and cleaned, adapt themselves to the 
work satisfactorily. 

The sheet irons generally used for the 
enameling purposes referred to vary in 
gauge. The finer the iron the greater 
must be the care used in coating it with 
enamel. Thin iron will rapidly become 
hot or cool, the temperatures changing 
much more quickly than that of the mix- 
ing. Unless care, therefore, is used, the 
result of fusing will be that the enamel 
mass will not have become thoroughly 
liquid, and its adherence to the iron will 
be imperfect. 

If, however, the temperature is gradu- 
ally raised to the maximum, and sym- 
pathetic combination takes place, the 
dangers of rapid cooling are avoided. 
Again, the iron, in losing its temperature 
more rapidly than the enamel, will con- 
tract, thus loosening its contact with the 
glaze, and the latter will either then, or 
after a short period of usage, chip off. 
We then arrive at the following hard-and- 
fast rules: (1) In all classes of enameling, 
but particularly where thin iron sheets 
are used, the temperature of the plate 
and its covering must be raised very 
gradually and very uniformly. (2) In all 
cases a plate which has had a glaze fused 
on its surface must be cooled very gradu- 
ally and very uniformly. The importance 
of these rules cannot be over-estimated, 
and will, therefore, be referred to in a 
more practical way later. 



In enameling factories no causes « 
more prolific m the production of Ws = e 
than these, and in many cases the A 
i ects produced are erroneously attrihm 4 
to something else. Cast iron is mrft 
easier to enamel than wroueht i 
This is due to the granular chara e ter°Ji 
its composition.^ It retains the enamel 
in its small microscopic recesses s a 
greater uniformity can be arrived at wit? 
greater ease. Cast-iron enameled biS 
tablets and hollow ware were at on 
time made, but their great weight madp 
it impossible for them ever to come into 
general use. 

Wrought-iron plates, if examined mi 
croscopically, will show that they are of 
a fibrous structure, the fibers running i n 
the direction in which they have been 
rolled. m The enamels, therefore, will be 
more liable to flow longitudinally than 
transversely, and this tendency will be 
more accentuated at some places than at 
others. This, however, is prevented by 
giving the iron sheets what might be 
described as a cast-iron finish. The 
sheets to be enameled should be thorough- 
ly scoured in all directions by quartz or 
flint sand, no part of the surface being 
neglected. This thorough scrubbing 
will roughen the surface sufficiently to 
make it unifornuy retentive of enamel 
mixture, and in no cases should it be 
omitted or carelessly carried out. 

Copper Enameling.— On a clean cop- 
per surface the enameling process is easy. 
The foundation glaze is not essential, 
and when required the most beautiful re- 
sults of blended colors can be obtained 
by very little additional experience to or- 
dinary enameling. 

When the vase or other article has been 
hammered out to the required shape in 
copper, it is passed on to another class of 
artisans, who prepare it for the hands oi 
the enamcler. The design or designs 
are sketched carefully. The working 
appliances consist only of a pointed tool, 
two or three small punches of varying 
sizes, and a hammer. With this small 
equipment the operator sets to wort. 
The spaces between each dividing nne 
are gradually lowered by hammering, 
and when this has been uniformly c°™ 
pleted, each little recess is ready tor * 
ceive its allotment of enamel. 1U0 , 
accurate work even than this can be o ' 
tained by the introduction of flat wir ■ 
This wire is soldered or fixed on the yap 
and forms the outline for the entir 
design. It may be of brass, copP er ' 
gold, but is fixed and buflt round erer 
ltem of the whole design with tne i" 



ENAMELING 



then 



care I* stands above the sur- 
bon ?tL design on the copper articles, 
,ce <» ]j tt i e recesses formed by it are 
it t" e ...„iiv filled up by enamel in 



rra dually filled up 
• * fusings. The whole surface 
, Article" is now ground perfectly 

* f tL fu ond polished until its luster is 

itn " - - - * ■ — — 1 



Bin00 i tn the highest point possible and 
rftl sea ^ gta ^as j,een reached the 

article is 



«•;••:'? $ peadyW the market. 



From the Sheet to the Sign Tablet - 
Tte plates are generally in lengths of G 



2 feet, 6 feet by 3 feet, etc., the 
le y generally being from 14 to 22, ac- 
g 'X, to the size and class of plates to 
These must be cut, but 

P. 1 



cording to 
Vip enameled.. - 

jL e enamelers prefer to order their 
ISSes in specified sizes, which does away 
Uh the necessity of cutting at the enam- 
IL. factory. In order, however, to 
ro3 ke this article complete, we will as- 
sume that a stock of large plates is kept 
on hand, the sizes being 6 feet by 3 feet 
and 6 feet by 2 feet. An order for sign 
tablets is given; particulars, say as fol- 
lows: Length, 2 feet by 12 inches, white 
letters on blue ground; lettering, The 
Engineer, 33 Norfolk Street;, block letters, 
no border line, 2 holes. For ordinary 
purposes these particulars would be suf- j 
ficient for the enamcler. 

Stage I.— Cutting the plate is the first 
operation. The plates 6 feet by 2 feet 
would first be cut down the center in a 
circular cutting machine, thus forming 
two strips, 6 feet by 12 inches. Each 
strip would then be cut into three lengths 
of i feet each. If a guillotine had to be 
used instead of a circular cutter, the plate 
would be first cut transversely at dis- 
tances of 2 feet, thus forming three 
square pieces of 2 feet by 2 feet. These 
^ould then be subdivided longitudinally 
into two lengths each, the pieces being 
then a feet by 12 inches. Each sheet 
*°vild thus be cut into six plates. 
, ktage II.— The cut plates should next 
j Te an y roughness removed from the 
J^ges, then punched with two holes — 
setr at each end, followed by leveling or 
This is done by hammering 
««ully on a true flat surface , 

u £*ge in.--The plates should then be 
leidl ^ dipped into a hydrochloric 
tile a j tQa ° e U P of equal quantities of 
taise?? an<J Wat er- The plates are then 
femr, i . a red fie^t in the stoves, and on 

•Co ■ ? wiU be found that the scale ~; 

Will * jm ^ nas become loosened, and 
talli c , ad ."y fal1 off > leaving a clean me- 
in e .v unac e- A second course of cleari- 
«cid-!i en tollt)Ws in diluted sulphuric 
Part acid to 20 parts w 



295 



out 



stronger bath i s S a 

left in only a very shn^l C fe te i are 
is constructed o "LS I ? "T" The batfi 
with Buiibfe %^ h d W °° d COated insi de 

should be slowly p^tt 

the batH S™ U ; l^ rri ^- 3?ollowinJ 
the bath, the metal is rinsed in water 
after which it is thoroughly scoured with 
fine flinty sand. Ihnsing again follows, 
but in boding water, and then the metal 
is allowed to dry. The enameling proc- 
ess should immediately follow the dry- 
ing,^ for if kept for any length of time the 
surface of the metal again becomes oxi- 
dized. In hollow-ware enameling tht 
hydrochloric acid bath may be omitted. 

Stage IV. — The plates are now readj 
for the reception of the foundation 
gray coating. If powder is used the 
plate is wiped over with a gum solution, 
and then the powder is carefully and uni- 
formly dusted through a fine sieve ove 
the surface. The plate is then reversec 
and the operation repeated on the other 
side. If a liquid "gray" is to be used i 
should have a consistency of cream, anc 
be poured or brushed with equal care 
over the two surfaces in succession, aft 
the plate has been heated to be only jx 
bearable to the touch. The plates a 
then put on rests, or petits, in a dryii 
stove heated to about 160° F., and wh< 
thoroughly dry they are ready for the 
fusing operation. The petits, with , tht 
plate!, are placed on a long fork fixec 
In a wagonf which can be move bac 
ward and forward on rails; the door 
the fusing oven^then raised a 

bricl 

■sed. The s t°ve has a cherr 



wagon moved, forward. The . fork 
ters the oven just above fire day 



door closed. 



red, aim 
utes 
form 



utes the enam^ j-r° D i ateS a re reat 
:m ly melted, and t be pi« fofk 
to be removed on the inse rf« 



the same manner w be ca refulh 

cooling nius i„ n0 e ^ ame l and th« 



Rapid 
avoided, 
iron will be 



° th Se e to separate, ana « 



and chip- 



Wht 



nine will result. a« ingop* 
& shoulc Ibj^S'ffu prepare 
oil the pl» tes ( ,X auunimd and defec 



£96 



ENAMELING 



Stage V. — The coating of the plate 
with white is the next stage. The tem- 

{>erature of fusion of the white glaze is 
ower than that of the gray, so that the 
plate will remain a shorter time in the 
stove, or be submitted to a somewhat 
lower temperature. The latter system 
is to be strongly recommended in order 
to prevent any possibility of fusion of the 
ground mass. The white should be 
made as liquid as possible consistent 
with good results. The advantages of 
thin coatings have already been explained, 
but if the mixing is too thin the ground 
coating will not only be irregularly cov- 
ered, but, in fusion, bubbles will be pro- 
duced, owing to the steam escaping, and 
these are fatal to the sale of any kind of 
enameled ware. When the plate has been 
thoroughly dried and fusion has taken 

f>lace, slow and steady cooling is abso- 
utely essential. Special muffles are 
frequently built for this purpose, and 
their use is the means of preventing a 
large number of wasters. Before put- 
ting on the glaze, care must be taken to 
remove the gray from any part which is 
not to be coated. The temperature of 
fusion should be about 1,890° P.,* and 
the ti me taken is about 5 minutes, 

_Stage VI. — The stencil must be cut 
with perfect exactitude. The letters 
should be as clear as possible, propor- 
tioned, and spaced to obtain the best 
effects as regards boldness and appear- 
ance. Stencils may be cut either from 
paper or from specially prepared soft 
metal, called stencil metal. The former 
are satisfactory enough when only a few 
plates are required from one stencil, but 
when large quantities are required, say, 
60 upward, metal stencils should be used. 
The paper should be thick, tough, and 
strong, and is prepared in the following 
manner: Shellac is dissolved in methy- 
t ated spirits to the ordinary liquid gum 
'orm, and this is spread over both sides 
of the paper with a brush. When thor- 
oughly dry a second protective coating is 
added, and the paper is then ready for 
stencil work. The stencil cutter's outfit 
consists of suitable knives, steel rule, 
scales of various fractions to an inch, a 
large sheet of glass on which the cutting 
is done, and alphabets and numerals of 
various characters and types. For or- 
dinary lettering one stencil is enough, 
but for more intricate designs 2, 3, and 
even 4 stencils may be required. In the 
preparation of the plates referred to in the 
paragraph preceding Stage I, only 1 



pe* ature DB * P " >C ° ° f braBS lvi11 r «=P re aent this tera- 



stencil would be necessary. The n 
before preparation would be measSS 
out to the exact size of the plate and 
letters would be drawn in. The cutt 
would then be done, and the resilS 
shown at Fig. 1 would be obtained, the 



THE KMCINKKK 

33 NORFOLK SS 




Fig. 1 



Fig. 2 



black parts being cut out. The lines or 
corners of each letter or figure should he 
perfeclly clear and clean, for any Haw in 
the stencil will be reproduced on the 
plate. 

Stage VII.— The next stage is the ap- 
plication of the blue enamel. The opera- 
tion is almost identical with that of tha 
white, but when the coating has been 
applied and dried, the lettering must ba 
brushed out before it is Fused. The 
coating is generally applied by a badger 
brush after a little gum water has been 
added; the effect of this is to make the 
blue more compact. 

Stage VIII. — The next operation is 
brushing; the stencil is carefully placed 
over the plate, and held in position, and 
with a small hand brush with hard 
bristles the stencil is brushed over. This 
brushing removes all the blue coating, 
which shows the lettering and leaves the 
rest of the white intact. When this has 
been done, thf. stencil is removed and the 
connecting ribs of the lettering — some of 
which are marked X in Fig. 2 — are then 
removed by hand, the instrument gen- 
erally being a pointed stick of bos or 
other similar wood. 

Stage IX. — Fusing follows as in the 
case of the white glaze, and the plate is 
complete. One coat of blue should be 
sufficient, but if any defects are apparent 
a second layer is necessary. 

The white and blue glazes are applied 
only on the front side of the plate, the 
back side being left coated with gray 
only. 

From the Sheet to the Hollow Ware.— 
In hollow-ware enameling, the iron is 
received in squares, circles, or oblongs, 
of the size required for the ware to be 
turned out. It is soft and ductile, and 
by means of suitable punches and dies it 
is driven in a stamping press to the neces- 
sary shape. For shallow articles only 
one operation is necessary, but for deeper 
articles from 2 to 6 operations may » e 



ENAMELING 



.,4 annealing m a specially con- 
req« jre ?' furnace taking place between 
*V ^Xwing the "drawing' opera- 
e» ch ' ies that of trimming; this may 
ti otlS in % press or spinning lathe, the 
b e do f hriii* to trim the edges and re- 
<> b i ect fl roughness. The articles are 
J» oVC iv for enameling. For explana- 
»°* ffX suppose they are tumblers to 
ion, } e ,l U - n Je, and blue outside. The 
be *^ ' t bid on, then the white and 

1 he blue- that is, after the pickling | 
l^-Sminir operations have been per- | 
line of demarcation be- 
and white must be clear, 



WL- 

enamelmg 
gjgn-plst 



Th 

viscous 

should also be ^applied 
sible. 



i'SS-srsia'Ss&.'-ia 



thinly 



as 



pos* 



'""J' lf-qiiin* r operati-- 
8 " ° j Xhe line of demarcation be 
fo the blue and white must be clear, | 

the appearance of the article 
° 11 not be satisfactory. The process of 
is exactly the same as for 
e enameling, but more care 
™«V be exercised in order to obtain a 
Esther surface. While the hqmd 
Zlme\s are being app hed, circular 
articles should be steadily rotated m 
order to let the coating flow uniformly 
and prevent thick and thin places. the 
enameling of "whole drawn" ironware 
presents no difficulty to the ordinary 
enamel er, but with articles which are 
seamed or riveted, special care and ex- 
perience is necessary. 

Seamed or riveted parts are, of course, 
thicker than the ordinary plate, will ex- 
pand and contract differently, will take 
longer to heat and longer to cool, and the 
conclusion, therefore, that must be ar- 
■ived at is that the thickness should be 
^educed as much as possible, and^ the 
joints be made as smooth as possible. 
Unless special precautions are taken, 
cracks will be seen on articles of this 
kind running in straight lines from the 
rivets or seams. To avoid these, the 
enamel liquid must be reduced to the 
greatest stage of liquidity, the heat must 
b e raised slowlv, and in cooling the 
"tides should pass through, say, % or 3 
Ruffles eacn one having a lower temper- 
p UTe than the preceding one. It is now 
generally conceded that the slower and 
°re uniform the cooling process, the 
§52* *iU he the durability of the 
Wl Feldspar is an almost abso- 

■uccLST l sa ,7 addition *° the g rav *5 

tW hollow- ware enameling, and 

*WiT£! 0SItious of both s rav and white 

Urm ? e s uch as to demand a high 
m I u ire for fusion. The utensils 
r *UoT t ^ ray coati ng should first be 
and H, a ! mo 3t a red heat in a muffle, 
Hite h f in a f urnace raised to a 
sit nilar\ e The white should be treated 
k t C0 ^ y 'i an<i ' m tllis wa y the time taken 
be abcoj fusIon at t^e last stage will 



Stoves and Furnacp*; 

Pusing.-The beTS ts iTobfaSa 
in enameling when the thorough!? ground 
and mixed constituents are* fusld to- 
gether reground, and then applied to 
the metal surface. In cheap enamS ?t£ 
gray is sometimes applied without heine 
previously melted, but it lacks the dura- 
bility which is obtained by thorough 
fusion and regrinding. In smelting en- 
amel one of two kinds of furnaces may 
be used, viz., tank or crucible. The 
former is better adapted to the melting 
of considerable quantities of ordinary 
enamel, while the latter is more suitabU 
for smaller quantities or for finer enamel 
as the mixture is protected from the 
direct action of the flames by covers 
the crucibles. The number of tanks anc 
crucibles in connection with each furnace 
depends upon the heating capacity 
the furnace and upon the out-turn r 
quired. They are so arranged that all 
any of them can be used or put out of u 
readily by means of valves and dampers 
Generally, they are arranged in groups r 
from 6 to 12, placed in a straight or 
circular line, but the object aimed at 
complete combustion of the fuel, and tl 
utilization of the heat to the fullest 
tent. One arrangement is to have tl 
flame pass along the bottom and sides 
the tank and then over the top to t 

chimney. . . , 

The general system in use is, however 
the T crucible system. The crucibles ar 
made from the best fire clay, and tn 
most satisfactory are sold under h nam, 
of "Hessian crucibles. A ne L * , 
Action to the use of the 
Jrf cost. They are expensive an 
many factories the life of the er^ 

very short, in S .^^/Sn When th, 
beyond one period of fusmn ^ ^ e 
however, is the rul e ^ ^ . 



to cart 
or coc 



4 minutes. 



ception, the res 

lessness. Sudden n «, to crack 

Of the crucible v^Ucaug. g ^ ^ ; 
fall to pieces, but lor te? 

excuse. Rur J n + ^crucible and replacii, 
quickly out of the crnfflD ^ 
fl hurriedly wit h a f res ^ ^ pre 
liable-m fact, alrnos ^ d e 

duce fractxire, »°t on g but also the los 
struction of the cr ^ V^bles sho 
of the mixing- > Ne T ent i e heat 
be thoroughly dried m g ^ 
some day- a^d m«J^ tuM ^ ich ^ 
to the requisite tem F 



must sustain for the purposes of fusion. 
Sometimes unglazed porcelain crucibles 
specially prepared with a large propor- 
tion of china clay are used. These are, 
however, expensive and require special 
attention during the first melt. The life 
of all crucibles can be lengthened by: 
(1) Gradually heating them before put- 
ting them into the fire; (2) never replac- 
ing a frit with a cold mass for the suc- 
ceeding one; it should first be heated in a 
stove and then introduced into the cru- 
cible; (3) carefully protecting the hot 
crucibles from cold draughts or rapid 
cooling. 

Melting and Melting Furnaces. — The 
arrangement of the melting furnace must 
be such as to protect the whole of the 
crucible from chills. The usual pit 
furnaces, with* slight modifications, are 
suitable for this purpose. The crucible 
shown at b in Fig. 3 is of the type already 




Fig. 3 



described; at the top it is fitted with a 
hd, a, hinged at the middle, and at the 
bottom it is pierced by a 2-inch conical 
hole.* The hole, while melting is going 
on, is plugged up with a specially pre- 
pared stopper. The crucible stands on 



* Two inches for gray, one incb for glaze ; the 
note should be wider at the top. 



a tubular fireproof support, c, Wn5cll 
allows the molten mass to be easily r 
off into a tub of water, which is nlaeVH^? 
the chamber, d. The fuel i s tErown £ 
from the top, and the supply must K 
kept uniform. From 4 to G of these fur 
naces are connected with the same chirrT 
ney; but before passing to the chimriev 
the hot gases are in some cases used fm. 
heating purposes in connection with the 
drying stove. The plug used may be 
either a permanent iron one coated with 
a very hard enamel or made from a 
composition of quartz powder and water 
An uncovered iron plug would be un- 
suitable owing to the action of the iron 
on the ingredients of the mixing. 

In some cases only a very small hole is 
made in the crucible and no stopper used 
the fusion of the mixing automatically 
closing up the hole. In some other fac- 
tories no hole is made in the crucible, and 
when fusion is complete the crucible is 
removed and the mixing poured out. The 
two latter systems are bad; in the first 
there is always some waste of material 
through leakage, and in the latter the 
operation of removing the crucible is 
clumsy and difficult, while the exposure 
to the colder atmosphere frequently causes 
rupture. 

The plug used should be connected with 
a rod, as shown in Fig. 3, which passes 
through a slot in one-half of the hinged 
lid, a. When fusion is complete this half 
is turned over, and the plug pulled up, 
thus allowing the molten mass to fall 
through into the vat of water placed un- 
derneath. The mixing in the crucibles, 
as it becomes molten, settles down, and 
more material can then be added until 
the crucible is nearly full. If the mixing 
is correctly composed, and has been thor- 
oughly fused, it should flow freely from 
the crucible when the plug is withdrawn. 
Fusing generally requires only to be done 
once, but for fine enamels the operation 
may be repeated. The running off into 
the water is necessary in order to make 
the mass brittle and easy to grind. -U 
this was not done it would again form 
into hard flinty lumps and require much 
time and labor to reduce to a P 0 """", 1 ". 

A careful record should be kept of the 
loss in weight of the dried material « 
each operation. The weighings shouw 
be made at the fcllowing points: Ui 
Before and after melting; (2) alter 
crushing. 

The time required for melting vanes 
greatly, but from 6 to 9 hours ma > r ^ 
considered as the extreme limits. « 
is much used for raising the necessary 
heat for melting. The generator may o< 




ENAMELING 



. „ n7 convenient position, but 

placed * ys tem is to Jbaye at in the 

3 

feeble trouble in their preparation, 



a vetf ^battery of muffles, any or all 



quired 



; «ch new batch of material re- 
fresh stopper, wrought-] ron 
re been introduced inmany 
coated with an 



s'toPP er * U These 



f actor 'f to airing a much higher tempera- 
ena f f .sion than the fundamental sub- 
ture ,nd this coating prevents the iron 
P any injurious action on the int. 
ta rine -For fusing the enamel muffle 
are used;, these furnaces are 
f - Tin construction, being designed 
ffllB ^ iivfnr- CD Minimum consumption 
IK -m maximum heat in the muffle; 
afcJion of the inside of the muffle 
lom dust, draughts, etc. 

The muffle furnaces may be of any 
« K e but in order to economize fuel, it is 
obvious that they should be no larger 
than is necessary for the class and 
quantity of work being turned out. hot 
sign-plate enameling the interior or the 
muffle mav be as much as 10 feet by 5 
feet wide by 3 feet in height, but a furnace 
of this kind would be absolutely ruinous 
for a concern -where only about a dozen 
small hollow-ware articles were enameled 
at a time. The best system is lo^ have 
8 or 3 muffle furnaces of different dimen- 
sions, as in this way all or any one of 
them can be brought into use as the 
character and number of the articles 
may require. The temperature through- 
out the muffle is not uniform, the end 
nest to the furnace being hotter than 
that next to the door. In plate enamel- 
mg it is therefore necessary that the 
Plates should be turned so that uniform 
tk Sl011 °* t ' ie enam el may take place. In 
™e working of hollow ware the articles 
should he first placed at the front of the 



£99 



process „ f bJoS^S^SSt % 
of.en.ngs to the muffle shonlcfbe t«U 
little as posnble; otherwise cold "ah is 




SECTION ON A. 3, 



FRONT VIEW 



Fig. 4 



Fig. 4 shows a simple arrangement of 
a muffle furnace; a is the furnace itself, 
with an opening, e, through which the 
fuel is fed; b is the muffle; c shows the 
firebars, and d the cinder box; / is a rest 
or plate on which is placed the articles to 
be enameled. The plate or petits on 
which the articles rest while being put 
into the muffle should be almost red hot, 
as the whole heat of the muffle m this 
way begins to act immediately on the 
enamel coating. The articles inside the 
muffles can be moved about when neces- 
sar-v either by a hook or a pair of tongs, 
bufcare ZnJt be taken that every^rt 
of the vessel or plate is submitted to the 

of ar Arrangement of ^^"^ 
connected with an enameling factory 



t S TOVES— 1 



— ttJFIRE HOLE AND f 



FUSING 
OVEN 



FIRE Grates - 




Hasting furnace 



door 



ENAMELING SHOP 



DOOR 

FIRE BRI0K8 



j 



300 



ENAMELING 



present working. The stoves shown in 
Fie. 5 are drying stoves fired from the 
end by charcoal, and having a tempera- 
ture of about 160° F. Fig. 6 shows the 
arrangement of the flues for the passage 
of the gases round the fusing oven. The 
section through the line A B, Fig. 5, as 
shown in Fig. 7, and the section through 




SECTION THROUGH FUSING OVEN 
Fig. 6 




SECTION ON 
Fig. 7 



FIRE BBICK 




SECTION THROUGH FRIT KILNS 
Fig. 8 

the frit kilns, as shown in Fig. 8, are 
sufficiently explanatory. The frit kilns 
and the fusing oven flues both lead to the 
brick chimney, but the stoves are con- 
nected to a wrought-iron chimney shown 
in Fig. 6. Another arrangement would 
have been to so arrange the stoves that 
the gases from the frit kilns could have 
been utilized for heating purposes. 

Fuel. — The consumption of fuel in an 
enameling factory is the most serious 




item of the expenditure. Ill- constructed 
or badly proportioned stoves may *I 
resent any loss of coal from a quarter 
one ton per day, and as great and unif o 
temperatures must be maintained f "l 
of low quality and price is not desirable 
In the melting stoves either arranged ?; 
tank or crucible furnaces, the character 
of the coal must not be neglected I 
light dusViron oxide, or injurious gages 
will enter into the crucibles through anv 
opening, especially if the draught is not 
very great. Almost any of the various 
kinds of fuel may be used, provided that 
the system of combustion is specially 
arranged for in the construction of the 
fu rnaces. Charcoal is one of the best 
fuels available, its calorific value being 
so great; but its cost is in some places 
almost prohibitive. Wood burns too 
quickly, and is therefore expensive, and 
necessitates incessant firing. 

For practical purposes we are thus 
often left to a selection of some type of 
coal. A coal with comparatively little 
heating power at a cheap price will be 
found more expensive in the end than 
one costing more, but capable of more 
rapid combustion and possessing more 
heat yielding gases. Cheap and hard 
coals give the fireman an amount of labor 
which is excessive. The proper main- 
tenance of the temperature of the stove 
is almost impossible. Anthracite is ex- 
cellent in every way, as it consists of 
nearly pure carbon, giving oft' a high de- 
gree of heat without smoke. Its use, of 
course, necessitates the use of a blower, 
but to this there can be no objection. 
Any coal which will burn freely and clean, 

giving off no excessive smoke, and capa- 
le of almost complete combustion, will 
give satisfaction in enameling; but it 
must not be forgotten that the consump- 
tion of fuel is so large that both price and 
quality must be carefully considered. 
Experimental tests must be made from 
time to time. A cheap, common coal 
will never give good results, and a good 
expensive coal will make the cost of 
manufacture so great that the prices o. 



the 



enameJe 



led 



_ articles will render them 
unsalable. Any ordinary small factory 
Avill use from 2 to 4 tons per day of coal, 
and it will thus be seen that the financial 
success of a concern lies to a very erea 



extent at the mouth of the furnace. 



Coke 



is a good medium for obtaining the 
necessary heat required in en ? nl Sj&fU 
it can be got at a reasonable price, y 1 
a good draught a uniform temperature 
can be easily kept up, and the »se o 
this by-product is, therefore, to be n 
ommended. 



ENAMELING 



301 



ood coal and a furnace con- 
W> th , 8 utilize the heat given off to 
& a $nJt extent, there may still be un- 
tbe i lllie ; was te. The arrangement of 
necessa^, , d only b e ma de by those 
^ f ilv understand the character of 
ffh ° I and the objects in view. The 
the c0 j c harge should be thoroughly 
teniae i reliable, as much waste 

eS ? erlC unitly traced to imperfect feeding 

of f h rharffe of articles should be as 
, XS poSble, as fusing will take place 
lag ii„fls well on many articles as on 
eqU Vie charges should follow one 
Fit, J as rapidly as can be conveniently 
Bn d out" and where this is not done 
Tie is a Jack of organization which 
should be immediately remedied. 

jjjjls —Any hard substances must first 
be broken up and pounded in a pounding 
or stamping mill, or m any other suitable 
manner, thus reducing the umps to a 
granular condition. When this has been 
done the coarse is separated from the 
fine parts and the former again operated 
on. The next process is roller grinding 
for reducing the hard fritted granular 
particles to a fine powder. These mills 
vary in construction, but a satisfactory 
type is shown in Fig. 9. Motion is con- 




GRINDING MILL 
Fig. 9 

Jped by a belt to the driving pulley, and 
W 18 J ransm itted from the pinion to the 
shaft t u e1, wilic b is connected by a 
the • S 1 " 0111 ^ plate. As this revolves 

jnatcrird causes the mill wheels to 



-Dig. 1U. lhese mills consist of q 



tedii i atld in this wa i th e material is 
mIT i l j- a P^der. The rollers are of 
UCe a diameter on the inner side to 



p tev - ""*»Lie ie r on tne inner siuc uu 
ar e ,5 , Bu ppag e , and when all the parts 
clo S pT . of ""on, the metal must be 
so aa f aitle d and of very hard structure, 
t° reduce the amount removed by 
rWi 8 aT ° a mini mum. When the mate- 
^ car f B ,i OUnd wet » tbc powder should 
""ully protected from dust and 




GLAZING MILL 
Fig. 10 

strong Iron frame securely bolted to a 
stone foundation. In the sketch shown 
the framing carries 2 mills, but 3 or 4 
can be arranged for. A common ar- 
rangement for small factories consists of 
2 large mills, and 1 smaller mill, driven 
from the same shaft. One of the mills is 
used for foundation or gray mixings, the 
second for white, and the smallest one for 
colored mixings. In these mills it is 
essential that the construction is such as 
to prevent any iron fitting coming into 
contact with the mixing, for, as has 
already been explained the iron wilt 
cause discoloration. The ground rfjte 
is composed of quartz and is 
It is surrounded by a wooden ^ing-as 
shown at a— and bound togeLher by iron 
hoops The millstones are heavy 

^ rr f°- ne Cr The powdered material 

%hen a condition re ^ \ is run of ? 
has been reached the mixture ■ ^ 
through the ^; wt ^equired b 3 
thrown out of g^ r ,^ without inter- 
means of a clutch box, * q 
fering with the working ? 
The grinding stones we v Xq tlTQ£ 
require to be refaced £°m therefo « 
To 1 avoid « W/^ly^have a spare se 
it is advisable to -aw J removed for 
in readiness to tephace t qJ 

refacing- The d f or , in many 

should not be negiec^ ^ have been 
eases, ^Jf * ^ away of stones 

traced jo the J? gallic matter, 
containing eartny « 



Enamel Mixing. — All constituents of 
which an enamel glaze is composed must 
be intimately mixed together. This can 
only be done by reducing each to a fine 
powder and thoroughly stirring them up 
together. This part of the work is often 
carried out in a very superficial manner, 
one material showing much larger lumps 
than another. Under circumstances such 
as these it is absurd to imagine that in 
fusion equal distribution will take place. 
What really happens is that some parts 
of the mass are insufficiently supplied 
with certain properties while others have 
too much. A mixture of this class can 
produce only unsatisfactory results in 
every respect, for the variations referred 
to will produce variations in the com- 
pleteness of fusion in the viscous charac- 
ter of the mass, and in the color. 

The mixing can be done by thoroughly 
stirring the various ingredients together, 
and a much better and cheaper system is 
mixing in rotating barrels or churns. 
These are mounted on axles which rest 
in bearings, one axle being long enough 
to carry a pulley. From the driving shaft 
a belt is led to the cask, which then rotates 
at a speed of from 40 to 60 revolutions 
per minute, and in about a quarter of an 
hour the operation is complete. The 
cask should not exceed the 5-gallon size, 
and should at no time be more than two- 
thirds full. Two casks of this kind give 
better results than one twice the size. 
The materials are shot into the cask in 
their correct proportions through a large 
bung hole, which is then closed over by a 
close-fitting lid. 

Mixings. — For gray or fundamental 
coatings: 

I. — Almost any kind of 

glass 49 per cent 

Oxide of lead 47 per cent 

Fused borax 4 per cent 

II. — Glass (any kind). . 61 percent 

Red lead 22 per cent 

Borax 16 per cent 

Niter 1 per cent 

HI- — Quartz 67.5 per cent 

Borax 29.5 per cent 

Soda (enameling), 3 per cent 

The above is specially adapted for iron 
pipes. 

IV. — Frit of silica pow- 
der. 60 per cent 

Borax 33 per cent 

White lead 7 percent 

Fused and then ground with — 
Three-tenths weight of silica frit. 
Clay, three-tenths weight of silica frit. 
Magnesia, one-sixth weight of white lead. 



V. — Silica fit 

Borax ?4 I Cent 

Oxide of lead.,,!' 4 Cent 

Clay £« r c ^ 

Magnesia " £ £° p r cer * 

° * per cent 

No. V gives a fair average of severa] 
mixings which are m use, but it can K 
varied slightly to suit different condhin™ 
of work. ua 

Defects in the Gray or Ground Coat 
i^g— Chipping is the most disastrous 
This may be prevented by the addition 
of some bitter salt, say from 3 to 4 De i 
cent of the weight of the frit. 

The addition of magnesia when it has 
been omitted from the frit may also act 
as a preventive, but it should only be 
added in very small quantities, not ex- 
ceeding 2.5 per cent, otherwise the 
temperature required for fusion will be 
very great. 

Coating and Fusion.— Difficulties of 
either may generally be done away with 
by reducing the magnesia used in the 
frit to a minimum. 

A soft surface is always the outcome 
of a mixing which can be fused at a low 
temperature. It is due to too much lead 
or an insufficiency of clay or silica 
powder. 

A hard surface is due to the quantity 
of lead in the mixing being too small. 
Increase the quantity and introduce 
potash, say about 2.5 per cent. 

The gray or fundamental mixing 
should be kept together in a condition 
only just sufficicnt.lv liquid to allow of 
being poured out. When required to be 
applied to the plate, the water necessary 
to lower it to the consistency of thick 
cream can then be added gradually, 
energetic stirring of the mass taking 
place simultaneously in order to obtain 
uniform distribution. 

The time required for fusion may 
vary from 15 minutes to 25 minutes, but 
should never exceed the latter. If » 
does, it shows that the mixing is too 
viscous, and the remedy would be me 
addition and thorough intermixture ot 
calcined borax or boracic acid. ft J ll ? u . 
this fail, then remelting or a new frit is 
necessary, . 

A highly glazed surface on leaving tne 
muffle shows that the composition is to 
fluid and requires the addition ot eioy, 
glass, silica powder or other substance 
to increase the viscosity. , , .i e 

As has been already explained, i 
glaze is much more important than 
fundamental coating. Discoloration w 
slight flaws which c-ould be tolerated i» 
the latter would be fatal to the former. 



ENAMELING 



SOS 



us 



i zeS oxide of lead need not be 
g Tf should never be used in a coat- 
sse ls which are to contain acids 
* fo ' led as cooking utensils. It may 
■ b e j f„ siffD-tablet production. # 
Jt Dioes the following glaze gives 
J> or P r 
d results. 

^Feldspar « 

Borax 

Quartz. . }6>o 

Oxide of tin ... . l£ 
Soda. 



per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



Fluorspar 3.75 per cent 

Saltpeter 2.25 per cent 

Th* sign tablets the following gives 
*„{, results, although some of the suc- 
ceeding ones are in more general use: 

rr— Gullet 20 percent 

Powdered flint.. 15 percent 

Lead 52 per cent 

Soda 4.5 percent 

Arsenic 4.5 percent 

Niter 4 per cent 

HI— Frit of silica 

powder 30 percent 

Oxide of tin. . . . 18 per cent 

Borax IT percent 

Soda 8.6 percent 

Niter 7.5 per cent 

White lead 6.5 percent 

Carbonate o f 

ammonia.... 5.5 percent 

Magnesia 4 per cent 

Silica powder. . . 4 per cent 
The following are useful for culinary 
Utensils, as they do. not contain lead: 

IV.— Frit of silica 

powder 26 percent 

Oxide of tin . . . . 21 per cent 

Borax 20 percent 

Soda 10.25 percent 

Niter 7 per cent 

Carbonate o f 

ammonia .... 5 per cent 

Magnesia 3.26 per cent 

f 0 ^?_ should be ground up with the 



lowing 

Silica powder 
Oxide of tin. 

Soda, 

Magnesia 0.5 

^ — Feldspar 41 

J*orax 35 

Oxide of tin. ... 17 

Niter , . 7 

^5°^ 30 

feldspar 22 

Jihcate powder . 17.5 

^xideoftin 15 

??. d * 13.5 

Niter ^ 



4.25 peT cent 
2.25 per cent 
0.5 percent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



28 
19.5 

18 
17.5 
9.5 



per cent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



, Borax will assist fusion £W,* 

m „ Ie «£• 

VII.— Borax 

Oxide of tin '. . , [ 
Gullet (powdered 
> white glass) . . 
Silica powder. . . 

Niter 

Magnesia g 

Cla y 2.5 

VIII.— Borax. ........ 26.75 per cent 

Cullet 19 percent 

Sihca powder. . . 18.5 percent 
Oxide of tin . . . . 19 per cent 

Njte r 9.25 per cent 

Magnesia 4.5 percent 

Soda 3 percent 

To No. VII must be added— while 

being ground — the following percentages 

of the weight of the frit: 

Silica powder. . . 18 per cent 

Borax 9 per cent 

Magnesia 5.25 percent 

Boracic acid. . . . 1.5 percent 
To No, VIII should be similarly added 
the following percentages of the frit: 

Silica powder. . . 1.75 per cent 

Magnesia 1.75 percent 

Soda 1 per cent 

Thig mixing is one which is used in 
the production of some of the best types 
of hollow ware for culinary purposes 
The glaze should be kept in tubs mixed 
with water until used, and it should b 
carefully protected from dust. 

Defects in the Glaze or ^^^k 
be due to its being insuth 
More oxide of t"i is 

Insufficient luster can be 
\,o niianti^. 

it proves < 



white may 

ciently Sf^^ wTev^ed by 
•bon£ 

sier can - j 
'adding to the quantity 
ducing tne borax B the g Jj^ 
through the white* P hih or tb 
temperature of fusmn ^ ^ „ 

the ^'"8 , spread i 

the co*to* 

- to tflaze separate 



add magnesia, 
from the gray 
will 



some bitter 
" d by reduc 
Immunit 



Wsity of the . 
the coating 

may be due iv gla 

add 
u„ increase 

Viscosity wlll .. t 7 of borax. 

ing the Quantity oi d . pr0C ured b 

ng P native carbo^te g ^ th 
Slater the ^f^he temperature 

iorat* Say wiU increase th 




ENAMELING 



of fusion. Oxide of lead will make a frit 
more easily fusible. A purer white can 
be obtained by adding a small quantity 
of smalt. 

Water. — The character of the water 
used in the mixing of enamels is top fre- 
quently taken for granted, for unsuitable 
water may render a mixing almost entire- 
ly useless. Clean water, and with little 
or no sulphur present, is essential. For 
very fine enamels it is advisable to use 
carefully filtered water which has shown, 
after analysis, that it is free from any 
matter which is injurious to any of the 
enamel constituents. 

How to Tell the Character of Enamel. 
— In the case of sign tablets the charac- 
teristics looked to are appearance and 
the adherence of the coatings to the iron. 
For the latter the tests are simple. The 
plate if slightly bent should not crack the 
coating. An enamel plate placed in 
boiling water for some time and then 
plunged into very cold water should not 
show any cracks, however small, even 
after repeated treatment of this kind. 

Culinary utensils, and those to hold 
chemicals, should not only look well, but 
should be capable of resisting the action 
of acids. Lead should never enter into 
the composition of enamels of this class, 
as they then become easily acted upon, 
and in the case of chipping present a 
menace to health. The presence of lead 
is easily detected. Destroy the outside 
coating of the enamel at some spot by the 
application of strong nitric acid. Wash 
the part and apply a drop of ammonium 
sulphide. If lead is present, the part 
will become almost black, but remains 
unchanged in color if it is absent. 

Another simple test is to switch up an 
egg in a vessel and allow it to stand for 
about 24 hours. When poured out and 
rinsed with water a dark stain will re- 
main if lead is present in the enamel. 
To test the power of chemical resistance 
is equally simple. Boil diluted vinegar 
in the vessel for several minutes, and if 
a sediment is formed and the luster and 
smoothness of the glaze destroyed or 
partially destroyed, it follows that it is 
incapable of resisting the attacks of acids 
for any length of time. There are sev- 
eral other tests adopted, but those given 
present little difficulty in carrying out, 
and give reliable results. 

Wasters and Seconds: Repairing Old 
Articles.- — In all enameling there must 
be certain articles turned out which arc 
defective, but the percentage should never 
be very great. The causes which moat 



frequently tend to the production 
wasters are new mixings and a tenX ° 
ture ot iusion which is either too hieh 
too , low There are two ways of dk 
posing of detective articles, viz • m 
Chipping off the bad spots, p ^ ch gf 
them up and selling them as "seconds'- 8 
(8) throwing the articles into the waste 
heap. The best firms adopt the l a +tJ! 
course, because the recoating and firin 
of defective parts practically means f 
repetition of the whole process, thus add 
ing greatly to the cost, while the selling 
price is reduced. Overheating m fusion 
is generally shown by blisters or by the 
enamel being too thin in various places 
Chipping may be also due to this cause 
the excessive heat having practically 
fused the fundamental coating. 

At this stage the defects may be 
remedied by breaking off the faulty parts, 
patching them up, and then recoating 
the whole. With sign tablets there is no 
objection to doing so, but with hollow 
ware the fact remains that the article is 
faulty, no^ matter how carefully defects 
may be hidden. As white is the most 
general coating used, and shows up the 
defects more than the colored coatings, 
the greatest care is necessary at every 
stage of the manufacture. While glow- 
ing on the article, it should appear 
uniformly yellow, but on cooling it should 
revert to a pure white shade. On ex- 
amining different makes of white coated 
articles, it will be found that some are 
more opaque than others. The former 
are less durable than the latter, because 
they contain a large percentage of oxide 
of tin, which reduces the elasticity. To 
ensure hardness the mixing must be 
very liquid, and this cannot be arrived 
at when a large quantity of oxide of tin 
is introduced. 

Old utensils which have become 
broken or chipped can be repaired, 
although, except in the case of large 
articles, this is rarely done. The opera- 
tions necessary are: (1) The defective 
parts chipped off; (2) submitted to a red 
heat for a few moments; (3) coated witn 
gray on the exposed iron; (4) fused; y) 
coated with the glaze ou the gray; V>i 
fused. 

To Repair Enameled Signs.— 

Copal 5 parts 

Damar 5 P ar J s 

Venice turpentine ... 4 parts 
Powder the rosins, mix with the - tatj> 
pentine and add enough alcohol to Jo 
a thick liquid. To this add WW* 
powdered zinc white in sufficient qua 
tity to yield a plastic mass. L-oior g 



ENAMELING 



805 



jitter 

ed 



of 



course, be added if 



« *fter application is polished 
KtS beSin? Efficiently hard. 
whe111 1 for Copper Cooking Vessels. — 

Wt't e .Tnd Wrongly 



guflCieii" , ground to a 
$F fl a U „°d ?tron g ly%alcined with 
P^f r f,7me of unburnt gypsum, at a 
^ual heat> stirri ng diligently. 

^X Kture to a paste with water, 
the vessel with it, using a brush, 
paint tne _ like a g]aze an d dry 

*P° ur i n Increase the .heat gradually 

^■ESs the vesseIs with i th i- e g f s 

^jlt.Dce^uickly into strong heat under 
S table covering or a mantle of burnt 



clay, 

opaque ena 
tie copper 



The substance soon forms a white 
mel, which ahderes firmly to 
It can stand pretty hard 



without cracking, is adapted for 
■poking purposes and ' 



g&w^nd^ to the 
copper, a sudden and severe heat must 
be observed. 

To Pickle Black Iron-Plate Scrap 
Before Enameling. —The black iron- 
plate scraps are first dipped clean in a 
mixture of about 1 part of sulphuric 
acid and 20 to 22 parts of water heated 
to S0° to 40° C. (86° to 104° F.), and 
sharp quark sand is then used for scour- 
ing. They are then plunged for a few 
seconds in boiling water, taken out, and 
allowed to dry. Rinsing with cold water 
and allowing to dry thus may cause 
mt. The grains of quartz cut grooves 
in the fibers of the iron; this helps the 
grounding to adhere well. With many 
™ds of plate it is advisable to anneal 
"fer pickling, shutting off the air; by 
tais means the plates will be thoroughly 
cl =an and free From oxidation. Much 
practice is required. — The Engineer. 

Cameled iroit recipes. 

[ ^ e ^ rst thing is to produce a flux to 
S at a mod erate heat, which, by fiow- 
W U f 0U f be plate ' forms a uniform sur- 
»m.i e w bite or colored enamels to 
ot k upon. 

p lux f or E nameled Iron __ 

m*t d 10 p«? 

pi- . ua y 1 part 

W.glass 10 parts 

T h , In S Ipart 

any of t^ tes may tb - en be coated with 
tony c ; tl ; hc following mixtures, which 
*ith a i-fl be spread on as a powder 

u *. or tt ' gum > as in the case of the 
**d the i rs ma y be mixed with oil 
plates dipped therein when 



not attacked by 
If the glassy substance is 



pxide & ofii n .;;; ? a S aT l s 

Niter... 1 4 parts 

Red lead... '.".V." \ \\\ J* E**! 

Flint or china clay! ". . l 
Black.— 

Red oxide of iron. ... u Parts 

Carbonate of cobalt.. l| p arts 

Ked lead g 

Borax g 

Lynn sand. g 

Yellow Coral.— 

Chromate of lead. ... 1 

Red lead 

Mint 

Borax 

Canary. — 

Oxide of uranium . 

Red lead 4^ parts 

Flint li parts 

Flint glass 1 part 

Turquoise. — 

Red lead 40 parts 

Flint glass 12 parts 

Borax 16 parts 

Flint 12 parts 

Enamel white 14 parts 

Oxide of copper 7 parts 

Oxide of cobalt ipart 

Red Brown. — 

Calcined sulphate of 



parts 
part 



parts 
parts 
parts 



1 part 
2| parts 
1 part 
i part 



1 part 



iron ■ 

Flux No. 8 (seepage 307) 3 



part 
parts 



parts 
parts 
part 



Mazarine Blue. — 

Oxide of cobalt 10 

Paris white * 

Sulphate barytes A 

Fire the above at an intense heat am 
for use take _ 1 part 

Above stain - • • ■ g rts 

Flux No. 8 (seepage 307) d P 



Flux 

Sky Blue.— gQ 

Flint glass 1Q 

White lead * g 

Pearlash . • - • g 

Common salt. 4 

Oxide of cobalt 4 

Enamel, yrhxte 

Chrome Green.— 10 parts 

Borax. . : ■ ' . . . 4* P ar ! 3 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



parts 
parts 



Oxide of chrome £ 

White lead 9 

Flint glass.- 3 parts 

Oxide of cobalt. . 1 part 
Oxide of tin 



306 



ENAMELING 



Cora' Red. — 

Bichromate potash 1 part 

Red lead 4£ parts 

Sugar of lead 1 J parts 

Flint 1% parts 

Flint glass 1 part 

namel White. — Soft : 

Red lead.. 80 parts 

Opal glass 50 parts 

Flint 50 parts 

Borax 24 parts 

Arsenic S parts 

Niter 6 parts 

namel White. — 

Red lead 10 parts 

Flint 6 parts 

Boracic acid 4 parts 

Niter 1 part 

Soda crystals 1 part 

Where the enameled work is intended 
to be exposed to the weather do not use 
flux No. 8, but substitute the following: 

White lead 1 part 

Ground flint glass 1 part 

All the enamels should, after being 
mixed, be melted in crucibles, poured 
out when in liquid, and powdered or 
ground for use. 

FUSIBLE ENAMEL COLORS. 

The following colors are fusible by 
heat, and are all suitable for the decora- 
tion of china and glass. In the follow- 
ing collection of recipes certain terms 
are employed which may not be quite 
understood by persons who are not con- 
nected with either the glass or porcelain 
industries, such as "glost fire" and "run 
down," and in such cases reference 
must be made to the following defini- 
tions: 

"Run down. 3 ' Sufficient heat to melt 
into liquid. 

"Glost fire." Ordinary glaze heat. 
"Grind only." No calcination re- 
quired. 

"Hard fire." Highest heat attain- 
able. 

"Frit." The ingredients partly com- 
posing a glaze, which require calcina- 
tion. 

"Stone." Always best Cornwall stone. 
"Paris white." Superior quality of 
whiting. 

"Parts." Always so many parts by 
weight, unless otherwise stated. 

"D. L. Zinc." Particular brand not 
essential. Any good quality oxide of 
zinc will do. 



Ruby and Maroon.— Preparation 
silver: " 1 

Nitric acid i 

Water... \ ?™« 

_ . , 1 ounce 

Dissolve the silver till saturated th 

put a plate of copper in the solution hi 

precipitate the silver m a metallic stat? 

Wash well with water to remove the actl 

tate of copper. 

Flux for Above.— Six dwts. white lear 
to 1 ounce prepared silver. 

Tin _ Solution.— Put the acid (aqua 
regia) in a bottle, add tin in small quan- 
tities until it becomes a dark-red color" 
let it stand about 4 days before use' 
When the acid becomes saturated it wili 
turn red at the bottom of the bottle, then 
shake it up and add more tin; let it stand 
and it will become clear. 

Aqua Regia. — 

Nitric acid 2 parts 

Muriatic acid 1 part 

Dissolve grain gold in the aqua regia 
so as to make a saturated solution. 
Take a basin and fill it 3 parts full of 
water; drop the solution of gold into it 
till it becomes an amber color. Into this 
solution of gold gradually drop the solu- 
tion of tin, until the precipitate is com- 
plete. Wash the precipitate until the 
water becomes tasteless, then dry slowly 
and flux as follows: 

Flux No. i.— 

Borax 3 parts 

Red lead 3 parts 

Flint 2 parts 

Run down. 

Rose Mixture. — 

Purple of Cassius 1 ounce 

Flux No. 1 6 ounces 

Prepared silver 3 dwts. 

Flint glass - 2 ounces 

Grind. 

Purple Mixture. — 

Purple of Cassius .... 1 ounce 
Flux No. 8 (see page 307) 0} ounces 
Flint glass 2 ounces 

Grind. 

Ruby. — 

Purple mixture 2 A parts 

Rose mixture 1} parts 

Grind. 

Maroon, — 

Rose mixture 1 P a ^ c 

Purple mixture 2 P arI5 

Grind. 



ENAMELING 



o^cfc-Extra quality.— 

Red oxide of iron ... 

Carbonate of cobalt . . 

n x ide of cobalt 

Black flux A (see next 

formula) 

(jlost fi^. 
Black Flax A.— 

Bed lead 

Calcined borax 

Lynn sand 

Run down. 
Black No. 2.— 

Oxide of copper . . . . - 

Carbonate of cobalt. . 

Flux No. 8 (see next 

column) - 

Grind only. 
Enamel White.— 

Arsenic ■ 

Niter 

Borax 

Flint 

Glass 

Red lead 

Glost fire. 

Turquoise. — China : 

Calcined copper. ... 

Whiting 

Phosphate of soda.. . . 

Oxide of zinc 

Soda crystals 

Magnesia 

Red lead . . 

tflux T (see next for- 
mula) 

Glost fire. 
Flux T.— 

Borax 

Sand 

Run down, 
Grange. — 

Orange U. G 

*hix No. 8 (see next 

column) , 

Grind only. 
Slue Green.— 

Flint glass 

^naniel white ". 

«orax. 

£ed lead 

Flint 

°*ide of coppcrl 

Cor al Red.— 
gromate of potash. 



12 parts 
12 parts 
1 part 

SO parts 



3 parts 
\ part 
1 part 



1 part 
J part 

4 parts 



9,\ parts 
1^ parts 
4 parts 
16 parts 
16 parts 
32 parts 



5 parts 
5 parts 
8 parts 
16 parts 
4 parts 
2 parts 
8 parts 

52 parts 



2 parts 
1 part 



1 part 
3 parts 



8 parts 
25 parts 

5 parts 
24 parts 

6 parts 
2^ parts 



I part 
lJ|r parts 



Grind. ' 3 parts flux for coral. 

Flux for Coral.— 

Red lead... A1 
Flint.. parts 

Flint gw: III™!* 

R» ±t parts 

un down. 



Turquoise. — 

Oxide of copper 5 

Borax. 10 

Flint. 12 parts 

Enamel white 14 p art3 

Red lead 40 

Glost fire. 



parts 
parts 



parts 



Flux Mb. 8.— 

Red lead 6 parts 

Borax 4 

Flint 



Run down. 



parts 
2 parts 



Russian Green. — 

Malachite green 10 

Enamel yellow 5 

Majolica white 5 

Flux No. 8 (see pre- 
vious formula) 2 

Grind only. 

Amber. — 

Oxide of uranium . . 1 
Coral flux 8 

Grind only. 

Gordon Green. — 

Yellow U. G.. .. . .. ... f 

Flux No. 8 (see above) 10 
Malachite green 10 

Grind only. 

Celadon. — 

Enamel light blue . . . 
Malachite green. .. 
Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Grind only. 

Red Brown.— 

Sulphate of iron, fared 
Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Grind only. 

Matt Blue.— 

Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Oxide of zinc - 

Oxide of cobalt 

Glost fire, then take 

Grind only. 



parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 



part 
parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 



I part 
1 part 
15 parts 



1 part 
3 parts 



parts 
5 " parts 
4 parts 

1 part 
parte 




SOS 



ENAMELING 



PREPARATION OF ENAMELS. 

The base of enamel is glass, colored 
different shades by the addition^ of me- 
tallic oxides mixed and melted with it. 

The oxide of cobalt produces blue; 
red is obtained by the Cassius process. 
The purple of Cassius, which is one of 
the most brilliant of colors, is used al- 
most exclusively in enameling and min- 
iature painting; it is produced by adding 
to a solution of gold chloride a solution 
of tin chloride mixed with ferric chloride 
until a green color appears. The oxide 
of iron and of copper also produces red, 
but of a less rich tone; chrome produces 
green, and manganese violet; black is 
produced by the mixture of these ox- 
ides. Antimony and arsenic also enter 
into the composition of enamels. 

Enamels are of two classes— opaque 
and transparent. The opacity is caused 
by the presence of tin. 

When the mingled glass and oxides 
have been put in the crucible, this is 
placed in the furnace, heated to a tem- 
perature of 1,832° or 2,200° F. When 
the mixture becomes fused, it is stirred 
with a metal rod. Two or three hours 
are necessary for the operation. The 
enamel is then poured into water, which 
divides it into grains, or formed into 
cakes or masses, which are left to cool. 

For applying enamels to metals, gold, 
silver, or copper, it is necessary to reduce 
them to powder, which is effected in an 
agate mortar with the aid of a pestle of 
the same material. During the opera- 
tion the enamel ought to be soaked in 
water. 

For dissolving the impurities which 
may have been formed during the work, 
a few drops of nitric acid are poured in 
immediately afterwards, well mixed, and 
then got rid of by repeated washing with 
filtered water. This should be carefully 
done, stirring the enamel powder with a 
glass rod, in order to keep the particles in 
suspension. 

The powder is allowed to repose at 
the bottom of the vessel, after making 
sure by the taste of the water that it does 
not contain any trace of acid; only then 
is the enamel ready for use. 

For enameling a jewel or other object 
it is necessary, first to heat it strongly, in 
order to burn off any fatty matter, and 
afterwards to cleanse it in a solution of 
nitric acid diluted with boiling water. 
After rinsing with pure water and wip- 
ing with a very clean cloth, it is heated 
slightly and is then ready to receive the 
enamel. 

Enamels are applied with a steel tool 
in the form of a spatula; water is the 



vehicle. When the layers of enamel have 
been apphed s the contained water is 
removed by means of a fine linen rae 
pressing slightly on the parts that hale 
received the enamel. The tissue ab- 
sorbs the water, and nothing remains on. 
the object except the enamel powder 
It is placed before the fire to remove every 
trace of moisture. Thus prepared and 
put on a fire-clap slab, it is ready for its 
passage to the heat which fixes the 
enamel. This operation is conducted in 
a furnace, with a current of air whose 
temperature is about 1,832° F. In this 
operation the fire-chamber ought not to 
contain any gas. 

Enamels are fused at a temperature 
1,292° to 1,472° F. Great attention is 
needed, for experience alone is the guide, 
and the duration of the process is quite 
short. On coming from the fire, the 
molecules composing the enamel powder 
have been fused together and present to 
the eye a vitreous surface covering the 
metal and adhering to it perfectly. Un- 
der the action of the heat the metallic 
oxides contained in the enamel have met 
the oxide of the metal and formed one 
body with it, thus adhering completely. 

JEWELERS' ENAMELS. 

Melt together: 

Transparent Red. — Cassius gold pur- 
ple, 65 parts, by weight; crystal glass, 30 
parts, by weight; borax, 4 parts, by weight. 

Transparent Blue.— Crystal glass, 34 
parts, by weight; borax, 6 parts by 
weight; cobalt oxide, 4 parts, by weight. 

Dark Blue. —Crystal glass, 30 parts, by 
weight; borax, 6 parts, by weight; co- 
balt oxide, 4 parts, by weight; bone black, 
4 parts, by weight; arsenic acid, 2 parts, 
by weight. 

Transparent Green.— Crystal glass, SO 
parts, bv weight; cupric oxide, 4 parts, 
by weight; borax, 2 parts, by weight. 

Dark Green.— Crystal glass, 30 parts, 
by weight; borax, 8 parts, byweigat, 
cupric oxide, 4 parts, by weight; Done 
black, 4 parts by weight; arsenic aem, ? 
parts, by weight. 

Black.— Crystal glass, 30 parts, by 
weight; borax, S parts, by weight; cupn 
oxide, 4 parts, by weight; feme oxiae, 
parts, by weight; cobalt oxide, 4 P a " • 
by weight; manganic oxide, 4 parts, j 
weight. * 

White.— I. — Crystal glass, 30 parts, by 
weight; stannic oxide, 6 parts, by weig > 
borax, 6 parts, by weight; arsenic aci* 
2 parts, by weight. weteht; 

k-Crystal g l ass , 30 parts, by wejg* ' 
sodium antimonate, 10 parts, by 



ENAMELING— ENGRAVINGS 



309 



The finely pulverized colored ename 
j Lith a brush and lavender oil 
white enamel already fused in and 



mel is 
on 



^fef? oJrposTi the color compositions 
certain y u ,f_ e „ eaA f„ without a white 
in: 
gr< 

^aCT^lbeunsightly. 



hca 



ted until it melts. For 
trposes, the color compositions 
be fused in without a white 



mar also ^j^ 1 "^ ua!e d for white, No. 
gf must be free from lead, otherwise the 




White 

Tnic 2 parts, by weight, or sihcious 
j nf\ narts bv weight; powder, con- 
SnVof^ of t?n per S 100 P of lead, 100 
S by weight; carbonate of potassium, 
4 P 0 parti by weight. Fuse the whole 
with a quantity of manganese. To take 
Iwav the accidental coloring, pour it 
into" water, and after having pulverized 
it, melt again 3 or 4 times. 

Opaque Blue. —Crystal glass, 30 parts, 
by weight; borax, 6 parts, by weight; 
cobalt oxide, 4 parts, by weight ; calcined 
bone, 4 parts, by weight; dioxide ot ar- 
senic, 2 parts, by weight. 

Transparent Green.— Crystal glass, 30 
parts, by weight; blue verditer, 4 parts, 
by weight; borax, 2 parts, by weight. 

Opaque Green.— Crystal glass, 30 
parts, by weight; borax, 8 parts, by 
weight; blue verditer, 4 parts, by weight; 
calcined bone, 4 parts, by weight; dioxide 
of arsenic, 2 parts, by weight. 

Black. —I. — Crystal glass, 30 parts, by 
weight; borax, 8 parts, by weight; oxide 
of copper, 4 parts, by weight; oxide of 
iron, 3 parts, by w eight; oxide of cobalt, 
4 parts, by weight; oxide of manganese, 
4 parts, by weight. 

II.— Take 4 part, by weight, of silver; 
H parts of copper; 3i parts of lead, and 
H parts of muriate of ammonia. Melt 
together and pour into a crucible with 
twice as much pulverized sulphur; the 
crucible is then to be immediately covered 
that the sulphur may not take fire, and 
the mixture is to be calcined over a smelt- 
ing fire until the superfluous sulphur is 
burned away. The compound is then 
to be coarsely pounded, and, with a solu- 
tion of muriate of ammonia, to be formed 
Kj*P a paste which is to be placed upon 
the article it is designed to enamel. The 
article must then be held over a spirit 
lamp till the compound upon it melts 
and flows. After this it may be smoothed 
an Q polished up in safety. 

»ee also Varnishes and Ceramics for 
other enamel formulas. 



ENAMEL COLORS, QUICK DRYING: 

bee Varnishes. 

ENAMEL REMOVERS: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

ENAMELING ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 

ENGINES (GASOLINE), ANTI-FREEZ 
ING SOLUTION FOR: 

See Freezing Preventives. 

ENGRAVING SPOON HANDLES. 

After the first monogram has been en- 
graved, rub it with a mixture of 3 parts 
of beeswax, 3 of tallow, 1 of Canada bal- 
sam, and 1 of olive oik Remove any 
superfluous quantity, then moisten a 
piece of paper with the tongue, and 
press it evenly upon the engraving. Lay 
a dry piece of paper over it, hold both 
firmly with thumb and forefinger of left 
hand, and rub over the surface with a 
polishing tool of steel or bone. The wet 
paper is thereby pressed into the engrav- 
ing, and, with care, a clear impression 
is made. Remove the paper carefully, 
place it in the same position on another 
handle, and a clear impression will be 
left. The same paper can be used 2 
dozen times or more. 
ENGRAVING ON STEEL: 
See Steel. 



Engravings: Their Pres 
vation 

(See also Pictures, Prints, and Litho- 
graphs.) 

Cleaning of Copperplate Engravings. 

-Wash the sheet on both sides Jby 

„ n t ■ i «nft snonee or brush with 
means of a sort fpong lum 

water to which 40 parts « , 0Q0 

carbonate has been . added PJ* ^ 

parts of water, and rmse to paper e|| 

time with clear water, ^ext m 

water in which a ™ ™S with 

been admixed, rinse the sheet ag ^ 

water containing a J™^ 01 Jn the sun. 

Restoration of Old f^ rinted sheets 
gravings, woodcuts, or y ^ 

ghat have ^f f jf & 7ung carefully in 
dered white by irs ^J t ^ hyposulphite of 
water contwning * l*" e - W ^te in 
soda, and then c hoping : * th la tter, 
jaV elle watery T^&J^ of soda m-J 
put i 
pan, . 
water; 




ENGRAVINGS — ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



pound of chloride of lime. When cold, 
pour off the clear liquid, and keep in a 
lug ready for use. 

Surprising results are obtained from 
the use of hydrogen peroxide in the 
restoration of old copper or steel engrav- 
ings or lithographs which have become 
soiled or yellow, and this without the 
least injury to the picture. The cellulose 
which makes the substance of the paper 
resists the action of ozone, and the black 
carbon color of these prints is inde- 
structible. 

To remove grease or other spots ot 
dirt before bleaching, the engravings are 
treated with benzine. This is done by 
laying each one out flat in a shallow ves- 
sel and pouring the benzine over it. As 
benzine evaporates very rapidly, the 
vessel must be kept well covered, and 
since its vapors are also exceedingly in- 
flammable, no fire or smoking should be 
allowed in the room. The picture is 
left for several hours, then lifted out 
and dried in the air, and finally brushed 
several times with a soft brush. The 
dust which was kept upon the paper by 
the grease now lies more loosely upon it 
and can easily be removed by brushing. 

In many cases the above treatment is 
sufficient to improve the appearance of 
the picture. In the case of very old or 
badly soiled engravings, it is followed 
by a second, consisting in the immersion 
of the picture in a solution of sodium 
carbonate or a very dilute solution of 
caustic soda, it being left as before for 
several hours. After the liquid has been 
poured off, the picture must be repeated- 
ly rinsed in clear water, to remove any 
remnant of the soda. 

By these means the paper is so far 
cleansed that only spots of mold or 
other discolorations remain. These may 
be removed by hydrogen peroxide, in a 
fairly strong solution. The commercial 
peroxide may be diluted with % parts 
water. 

The picture is laid in a shallow vessel, 
the peroxide poured over it, and the 
vessel placed in a strong light. Very 
soon the discolorations will pate. 

To Reduce Engravings. — Plaster casts, 
as we know, can be perceptibly reduced 
to size by treatment with water or 
alcohol, and if this is properly done, the 
reduction is so even that the cast loses 
nothing of its clear outline, but some- 
times even gains in this respect by con- 
traction. If it is desired to reduce an 
engraved plate, make a plaster cast of it, 
Ireat this with water or alcohol, and fill 
the new cast with some easily fusible 



metal. This model, which will be 
siderably smaller than the oricinaf 0 ^ 
to be made again in plaster, and agail 
treated, until the desired size is reached" 



' ~ — <l*£j\j IJj J*f*' 

In this way anything of the kind 
medallions, < 
smaller scale. 



medallions, can be reprodurprl ' CVeix 



ENLARGEMENTS: 

See Photography. 

ENVELOPE GUM: 

See Adhesives, under Mucilages. 
EPIZOOTY: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

Essences and Extracts of 
Fruits 

Preservation of Fruit Juices.— The 
juices of pulpy fruits, when fre-h, con- 
tain an active principle known as pectin 
which is the coagulating substance that 
forms the basis of fruit jellies. This it 
is which prevents the juice of berries 
and similar fruits from passing through 
filtering media. Pectin may be precipi- 
tated by the addition of alcohol, or by 
fermentation. The latter is the best, as 
the addition of alcohol to the fresh juices 
destroys their aroma and injures the 
taste. The induction of a light fermen- 
tation is far the better method, not only 
preserving, when carefully conducted, 
the taste and aroma of the fruit, but yield- 
ing far more juice. The fruit is crushed 
and the juice subsequently carefully but 
strongly pressed out. Sometimes the 
crushed fruit is allowed to stand awhile, 
and to proceed to a light fermentation 
before pressure is applied; but while a 
greater amount of juice is thus obtained, 
the aroma and flavor of the product are 
very sensibly injured by the procedure. 

To the juice thus obtained, add from 
1 to 2 per cent of sugar, and put away m 
a cool place (where the temperature will 
not rise over 70° or 75° F.). Fermenta- 
tion soon begins, and will proceed ior a 
few davs. As soon as the development 
of carbonic acid gas ceases, the juice 
begins to clear itself, from the surface 
downward, and in a short time all fijjj* 
matter will lie in a mass at the bot torn, 
leaving the liquid bright and cieiu- 
Draw off the latter with a siphon, TO 
carefully, so as not to disturb ">V"JjJ 
mentarv matter. Fermentation sn 
be induced in closed vessels J>m, ^ 
when conducted in open contains - 
fungoid growth is apt to form 
surface, sometimes causing P ut ? e . ; „ in 
and at others, an acetic, fermentation^ 
either event spoiling the juice ior 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



=a except as a vinegar. The 
s^, tn effect the end desired should 
vessel, vj . two . t hirds or three-fourths 
be filled only carefu]1 closed with a 

ful K ffinfi cork, through which is passed 
tfc bt : nf slass, bent at the upper end, 
a tube oi fa f which passes below the 

' water. As 
lences the 
escapes 
whence 



a woe j o of whlch passes below tiic 
the short ei fiUeJ ^ water . As 

surface °Y erine ntation cornr nences the 

S0 °Lmc acid developed thereby 
carbonic a. the water> 

tbrougn j atmosphere. When 

il ^ S ?oo Io^er pass off Worn the tube 
r b £X "houfd be interrupted, and 
or siphoning with subse- 
d 7 filtration, commenced. 
<Sg in this manner all the 
\ and flavor of the juices are re- 
ar a If it is intended for preserva- 
tion for any length of time the juice 
Slid be heated on a water bath to about 
S f. and poured, while hot into hot- 
]Z which have been asepticized by filling 
with cold water, and placing m a vessel 
similarly filled, bringing to a boiling 
temperature, and maintaining at this 
temperature until the juice while still 
hot is poured into them. If now closed 
with corks similarly asepticized, or by 
dipping into hot melted paraffine, the 
juice may be kept unaltered for years. 
It is better, however, to make the juice 
at once into syrup, using the best, refined 
sugar, and boiling in a copper kettle 
(iron or tin spoil the color), following the 
usual precautions as to skimming, etc. 
The syrup should be poured hot into the 
bottles previously heated as before de- 
scribed. 

Ripe fruit may be kept in suitable 
quantities for a considerable time if cov- 
ered with a solution of saccharine and 
left undisturbed, this, too, without dete- 
riorating the taste, color, or aroma of the 
fruit if packed with care. 

"Whole fruit may be stored in bulk, 
P7 carefully and without fracture filling 
mto convenient-sized jars or bottles, and 
pouring thereon a solution containing a 
quarter of an ounce of refined saccharine 
to the gallon of water, so filling each 
vessel that the solution is within an inch 
of the eork when pressed into position. 
}at corks should first of all be immersed 
111 melted paraffine wax, then drained, 
*M allowed to cool. 'When fruit juices 
alone are required for storage purposes 
!5P P re pa-red by subjecting the 
w\ s to considerable pressure, by 
rp/ 1 Process the juices are liberated. 
1 he sound ripe fruits are crushed and 
f&^ed into felt or flannel bags. The 
o?! 1 s bould he carefully selected, rotten 
^paired portions beinjr carefully re- 



811 

moved; this is important, or the whole 

od^d OD iSJ POiled - ^ Veral ^ ! 
fyLgtut^St PreSerVing and clari " 
A common way in which they are W 
from fermenting is by the use of saliSS 
acid or other antiseptic substance, which 
destroys the fermentative germ, or other- 
wise retards its action for a considerable 
time. The use of this acid is seriously 
objected to by some as injurious to the 
consumer. About 2 ounces of salievlif 



□y some as injurious to the 

„ About 2 ounces of salicylic 

acid, previously dissolved in alcohol, to 
25 gallons of juice, or 40 grains to the 
gallon, is generally considered the proper 
proportion. 

Another method adopted is to fill the 
freshly prepared cold juice into bottles 
until it reaches the necks, and on the top 
of this fruit juice a little glycerine 13 
placed. 

Juices thus preserved will keep in an 
unchanged condition in any season. 
Probably one of the best methods of pre- 
serving fruit juices is to add 15 per cent 
of 95 per cent alcohol. Gmsuch an ad- 
dition, albumen and mucilaginous matter 
will be deposited. The juice may then 
be stored in large bottles, jars, or barrels, 
if securely closed, and when clear, so 
that further clarification is unnecessary, 
the juice should finally be decanted or 
siphoned off. 

A method applicable to most berries is 

as follows: . , 

Take fresh, ripe berries, stem, them, 
and rub through a No. 8 sieve r ejecting 
all soft and green fruit. Add to each 

Iranulated sugar. Pu on the ^™ *f v 
brine iust to a boil, stirring constantly 

hot, put .into J"? "?^ e ™d Ssethem 
Put the jars m cold water, an ^ 
to the boding pomt, to P^ iQii ^ 
from bursting by sudden ap m the 
pouring, hot f^-^Kave no air 

Prevention of *^j£iKS' 
Caramelization of Fru nt f 

fruit juices .carry an ke , 

free carbonic add, wh cn Thig u 
escape on heating the , Uqg* d 
do easily enough rf thy u g 
its natural.state density °f Jh» 

ar go ^creases in difficult, 
SSS that the e acid ftn* f « P . ^ to 
SJbffi?*^ caram^ation 



81% 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



the syrup, that is easily accounted for in 
the greater density of the syrup at the 
bottom of the kettle — the lighter portion, 
or that still carrying imprisoned gases, 
remaining on top until it is freed from 
them. Constant stirring can prevent 
this only partially, since it cannot entirely 
overcome the results of the natural forces 
in action. The consequence is more or 
less caramclization. The remedy is very 
simple. Boil the juices first, adding dis- 
tilled water to make up for the loss by 
evaporation, and add the sugar afterwards. 

ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS: 
Almond E xtra cts . — 
L— Oil of bitter almonds 90 minims 
Alcohol, 94 per cent, quantity suffi- 
cient to make 8 ounces. 

II.— Oil of bitter almonds SO minims 

Alcohol Jl ounces 

Distilled water, quantity sufficient 
to make 8 ounces. 

III.— Oil of bitter i al- 
monds, deprived 
of its hydrocyanic 

acid 1 ounce 

Alcohol IS ounces 

In order to remove the hydrocyanic 
acid in oil of bitter almonds, dissolve 2 
parts of ferrous sulphate in 16 parts of 
distilled water; in another vessel slake 1 

fjart freshly burned quicklime in a simi- 
ar quantity of distilled water, and to this 
add the solution of iron sulphate, after 
the same has cooled. In the mixture put 
4 parts of almond oil, and thoroughly 
agitate the liquids together. Repeat the 
agitation at an interval of 5 minutes, 
then filter. Put the filtrate into a glass 
retort and distil until all the oil has passed 
oyer. Remove any water that may be 
with the distillate by deeantation, or 
otherwise. 

Apricot Extract. — 

Linalyl formate. 90 minims 

Glycerine.. 1 ounce 

Amyl valerianate.. . , . 4 drachms 

Alcohol • • • • * * ounces 

Fluid extract orris ... 1 ounce 
Water, quantity sufficient to make 1 
pint. 

Apple Extract. — 

Glycerine I ounce 

Amyl valerianate 4 drachms 

Linalyl formate 45 minims 

Fluid extract orris.. .. I ounce 

Alcohol li ounees 

Water, quantity sufficient to make 1 
pint. 



Apple Syrup. -I. -Peel and remo ve fte 
cores of say 5 parts of apples and Cut 
them into little bits. Put m a Su i t Ar 
vessel and pour over them a mixture 5 
5 parts each of common white wine aiU 
water, and let macerate together f ^ r 
days at from 125° to 135° # the yes \ 
being closed during the time. Then strain 
the liquid through a linen cloth ushi« 
gentle pressure on the solid matter f orr b 
ing as much as possible of it through the 
cloth. Boil 30 parts of sugar and 20 
parts of water together, and when boilino 
add to the resulting syrup the apple 
juice; let it boil up for a minute or ao 
and strain through flannel. ' 

II. — Good ripe apples are cut into 
small pieces and pounded to a pulp i n a 
mortar of any metal with the exception 
of iron. To 1 part of this pulp add 11 
parts of water. Allow this to stand for 
12 hours. Colate. To 11 parts of the 
colature add 1 part of sugar. Boil for 
5 minutes. Skim carefully. Bottle slight- 
ly warm. A small quantity of tartaric 
acid may be added to heighten the flavor. 

Banana Syrup. — Cut the fruit in slices 
and place in a jar; sprinkle with sugar 
and cover the jar, which is then envel- 
oped in straw and placed in cold water 
and the latter is heated to the boiling 
point. The jar is then removed, allowed 
to cool, and the juice poured into bottles. 

Cinnamon Essence. — 

Oil of cinnamon 2 drachms 

Cinnamon, powdered 4 ounces 
Alcohol, deodorized. . 16 ounces 

Distilled water 16 ounces 

Dissolve the oil in the alcohol, and add 
the water, an ounce at a time, with agita- 
tion after each addition. Moisten the 
cinnamon with a little of the water, add, 
and agitate. Cork tightly, and put in a 
warm place, to macerate, 2 weeks, giv- 
ing the flask a vigorous agitation sev- 
eral times a day. Finally, filter througfl 
paper, and keep in small vials, tightly 
stoppered. 

Chocolate Extract.— Probably the best 
form of chocolate extract is made as toi- 
lows: 

Curacao cocoa 400 parts 

Vanilla, chopped 

fine I P art 

Alcohol of 55 per 

cent 2,000 parts 

Mix and macerate together for I 
days, express and set aside. lacK _ 
residue in a percolator, and pour on 
ing water (soft) and percolate until o 
parts pass through. Put the percolate 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



n i- rork, and let cool, then mis 
iB a ^d^ho ic extract. Jf t be de- 
witb tb e syrup, before mixing the 

5^??d T l OOO parts of sugar to the 
eJ£tr act, . aG " d wit h gentle heat dissolve 
percolate, » ^..^ ^ syrU p thus formed, 
the S«g a [: - tu the alcoholic extract, 
after cnoi" 1 ^' 
r Extracts.-In making coffee 
C » care must be used to avoid ex- 
extract, ca f erties of t h e coffee, 
trarfin? 1 " most manu facturers fail; 
as I t to ect a strong extract they sue- 

V1DM lu 6 ... 



T The coffee should be a mixture or 
,1. % nnrts- Old Government Java, 
or P a' some prefer, Mocha, 3 parts; 
£ Mparts; best ofd Rio, 2 parts. 
Coffee, freshly roasted 

and pulverized 100 parts 

Boiling water 600 parts 

Pack the coffee, moistened with boil- 
in, water, in a strainer or dipper placed 
in a vessel standing in the water bath at 
boiling point, and let 400 parts of the 
water, in active ebullition, pass slowly 
through it. Draw off the liquid as quick- 
lv as possible (best into a vessel previously 
Heated by boiling water to nearly the boil- 
ing point), add 200 parts of boiling water, 
and pass the whole again through the 
strainer (the container remaining in the 
water bath). Remove from the bath; 
add 540 parts of sugar, and dissolve by 
agitation while still hot. 

II.— The following is based upon Lie- 
big's method of making coffee for table 
use: Moisten 50 parts of coffee, freshly 
roasted and powdered as before, with, 
cold water, and add to it a little egg albu- 
men and stir in. Pour over the whole 
WO parts of boiling water, set on the fire, 
and let come to a boil. As the liquid 
foams, stir down with a spoon, but let it 
come to a boil for a moment; add a little 
cold water, cover tightly, and set aside in 
a warm place. Exhaust the residual 
coffee with 300 parts of boiling water, as 
^tailed in the first process, and to the 
J l «ate add carefully the now clarified 
^jact, up to 600 parts, by adding boiling 
ater. Proceed to make the syrup by 
^ -method detailed above, 
hart p"'° ma ^ e a more permanent ex- 
besM coffe e saturate 600 parts of 
fine ■Iu asled c °tf ec . ground moderately 
Wt, any Qesil "ed quantity of a 1 in 3 
distilM alcotl ol of 94 per cent and 
Cl 0g ' e f, Water > and pack in a percolator. 
"Wo i , aucet an d let stand, closely 
res'di 7 24 hours; then pour on the 
r u& a , e al cohol and water, and let 
trough, adding sufficient water, at 



318 

boils 1 away? ^eUhis as^V^ 
the pcrcofation!^^ Bu^fi^S 
the powder is exhausted £ water > nntil 
resultant percolate S„ to th^ 
ency of the alcoholic eJtrar? S i C ° Ml ?- 
two. If desired, tltl^t^t 
evaporated down to condition o?an ex 
tract. To dissolve, add boiling wa?er 

. V \~ Tha essence is expresslv adapted 
to boiling purposes. Take 3 pounds of 
good coffee, 4 ounces of granulated sugar, 
4 pints of pure alcohol, 6 pints ofliot 
water. Have coffee fresh roasted and of 
a medium grinding. Pack in a glass per- 
colator, and percolate it with a men- 
struum, consisting of the water and the 
alcohol. Repeat the percolation until 
the desired strength is obtained, or the 
coffee exhausted; then add the sugar and 
filter. 

V. — Mocha coffee 1 pound 

Java coffee. 1 pound 

Glycerine, quantity sufficient. 
Water, quantity sufficient. 

Grind the two coffees fine, and mix, 
then moisten with a mixture of 1 part o 
glycerine and 3 parts of water, and pae 1 
in a glass percolator, and percolate slowlj 
until 30 ounces of the percolate is ob- 
tained. It is a more completeextraction 
if the menstruum be poured on in the con 
dition of boiling, and it be allowed t 
macerate for 20 minutes before percola- 
tion commences. Coffee extract should, 
by preference, be made m a glass per- 
colator A glycerine menstruum is prei- 
erable to one V dilute alcohol, giving . 
finer product. 
YI —Coffee, Java, roast- 

ed, No. 20 pow- 4 ounces 

Glycerine; puVe:::. 4 Auidounces 
Water, quantity sufficient 
Boiling, quantity sufficient. 

Moisten the -^f^t™- 
and pack firmly ma ^ £f ^dounces 
on water, gradually, until 4, tfa 
are obtained '^g^th 8 flui 

coffee in a clean > & minutes 

ounces of water, and boil i ato 



ounces ot water, . th perC olato 

Again place the coffee m / hen th 

wfth the water H^^ined off, ?f 
liquid has passed, or ^ ho}h n 
the pounds firm^ ce P are 
water until S fi st product, an 

When cold, mix . th* sjj P d ct>rk well 

add the gly^nce'of fbS extract o f eo 
The excellence or preparation 

fee , from the £*^&nc*foh* f«g 



814 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



mulas usually recommended, the reason 
being apparent in the first step in the 
process. 

Coffee Essence.— 

Best ground Mocha 

coffee , 4 pounds 

Best ground chicory. . 2 pounds 
Boil with 2 gallons of water in a closed 
vessel and when cold, strain, press, and 
make up to 2 gallons, and to this add 
Rectified spirit of wine 8 ounces 
Pure glycerine (fluid) 16 ounces 
Add syrup enough to make 4 gallons, 
and mix intimately. 

Cucumber Essence. — Press the juice 
from cucumbers, mix with an equal vol- 
ume of alcohol and distil. If the distil- 
late is not sufficiently perfumed, more 
juice may be added and the mixture dis- 
tilled. It is said that the essence thus 
prepared will not spoil when mixed with 
fats in the preparation of cosmetics. 

Fruit Jelly Extract. — Fill into separate 
paper bags: 

Medium finely pow- 
dered gelatin 18 parts 

Medium finely pow- 
dered citric acid 3 parts 

Likewise into a glass bottle a mixture of 
any desired 

Fruit essence 1 part 

Spirit of wine 1 part 

and dissolve in the mixture for obtain- 
ing the desired color, raspberry red or 
lemon yellow, part. 

! For use, dissolve the gelatin and the 
citric acid in boiling water, adding 

Sugar 125 parts 

and mixing before cooling with the fruit 
essence mixture. 

Ginger Extracts.— The following is an 
excellent method of preparing a soluble 
essence or extract of ginger: 

I. — Jamaica ginger 24 ounces 

Rectified spirits, 60 

per cent 45 ounces 

Water 15 ounces 

Mix and let macerate together with 
frequent agitations for 10 days, then per- 
colate, press off, and filter. The yield 
should be 45 ounces. Of this take 40 
ounces and mix with an equal amount of 
distilled water. Dissolve: 6 drachms of 
sodium phosphate in 5 ounces of boiling 
water ; let cool and add the solution to the 
filtrate and water, mixing well. Add 2 
drachms of calcium chloride dissolved in 
ounces of water, nearly cold, and again 



thoroughly shake the whole. Lp+ , 
for 12 hours; then filter. tatl( i 
Put the filtrate in a still, and distil off 
at as slow a temperature as possible £a 
ounces, bet this distillate to one i\A 
and continue the distillation till anoth ' 
40 ounces have passed, then let the stS 
cool. The residue in the still, some la 
ounces, is the desired essence. Pour o t 
all that is possible and wash the still wit? 
the 30 ounces of distillate first set aside 
This takes up all that is essential" 
Finally, filter once more, through double 
filter paper and preserve the filtrate— 
about 40 ounces, of an amber-colored 
liquid containing all of the essentials of 
Jamaica ginger. 

Soluble Essence of Ginger. — II. The 

following is Harrop's method of proceed- 
ing: 

Fluid extract of gin- 
ger (U. S.) 4 ounces 

Pumice, in moder- 
ately fine powder . . 1 ounce 

Water enough to make 12 ounces 

Pour the fluid extract into a bottle, add 
the pumice and shake the mixture and 
repeat the shaking in the course of several 
hours. Now add the water in propor- 
tion of about 2 ounces, shaking well and 
frequently after each addition. When 
all is added repeat the agitation occa- 
sionally during 24 hours, then filter, 
returning the last portion of the filtrate 
until it comes through clear, and if nec- 
essary add sufficient water to make 12 
ounces. 

III. — Jamaica ginger, 

ground 2 pounds 

Pumice stone, ground 2 ounces 

Lime, slaked 2 ounces 

Alcohol, dilute 4 pints 

Rub the ginger with the pumice stone 
and lime until thoroughly mixed. J I° lste j 
wiLh the dilute alcohol until saturated and 
place in a narrow percolator, being care- 
ful not to use force in packing, biitsmW 
putting it in to obtain the position ot a 
powder to be percolated, so that W 
menstruum will go through unnorroi}' 
Finally, add the dilute alcohol and pro- 
ceed until 4 pints of percolate are o 
tained. Allow the liquid to stand w 
24 hours; then filter if necessary. 

IV. — Tincture ginger 480 parts 

Tincture capsicum.. 12 parts 

Olcoresin ginger. ... § parts 
Magnesium carbon- 

ate 16 parts 

Rub the oleoresin with the n^ 6 ?™ 
and add the tinctures; add about * 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



e 

tand 
er, 



4 ounces 



315 

rHd n f C or T ?l 0 n SeSSlng i a Ver y fi * e aroma 
and forming an almost perfectly clear 
solution m water. If the ginge? is al- 
lowed to dry more than the flw hours 
mentioned it wil not produce a soli- 
ble essence. It is used in some of the 
imported ginger ales as a flavoring only, 
and makes a lovely ginger flavor. 

Hop Syrup.— A palatable preparation 
not inferior to many of the so-called hop 

g°P s ;- : Mparts 

Dandelion 2 par t s 

Gentian % parts 

Chamomile % parts 

Stillingia 2 parts 

Orange peel 2 parts " 

Alcohol 75 parts 

Water. . 75 parts 

Syrup, simple 50 parts 

through bright and clear, jli necessary, Coarsely powder the drugs and cx- 
nass ivater through the filter, enough to haust with the water and alcohol mixed. 
■ , n a..i j r,f fli+Tctt. Decant, press out and filter, and finally 

add the syrup. The dose is a wineglass- 



r writer, in divided portions, stir 
P artS firWy the while- ^Transfer th, 

J to a bottle, and allow to sta 
? shaking frequently; then flit 
and inake up 960 parts with water. 
*v —Fluid extract of ginger 
v - (U.S.P.)....-. 

Pumice, powdered and 

washed • ■ 1 ^ce 

Water enough to make 12 ounces 

Tnur the fluid extract of ginger into a 
, ; f|e an d add the pumice, shake thor- 
set aside, and repeat the opera- 
tiofintbe course of several hours. Add 
ihe water, in the proportion of about 2 
ounces at a time, agitating vigorously 
after each addition. When all is added, 
repeat the agitation occasionally during 
U hours, then filter, returning the first 
portion of the filtrate until it comes 
through bright and clear. If necessary, 



make 12 fluidounces of filtrate 
VI. — Strongest tincture 



of ginger . 
Fresh slaked lime. 
Salt of tartar 



1 pint 
1£ ounces 
i ounce 



VII. 



parts 

parts 
parts 

parts 



-Jamaica ginger, 

ground 32 

Pumice stone, pow- 
dered 32 

Lime, slaked 2 

Alcohol, dilute, 
sufficient to make 82 
Hub the ginger with the pumice stone 
and lime, then moisten with alcohol until 
it is saturated with it. Put in a narrow 
percolator using no force -in packing. 
Allow the mass to stand for 24 hours, 
then let run through. Filter if neces- 
sary. 

^III- — The following is insoluble: 

Cochin ginger, 

cut fine 1,000 parts 

Alcohol, 95 per 

cent 2,500 parts 

Water 1,250 parts 

Glycerine 250 parts 

Digest together for 8 days in a very 
warm, not to say hot, place. Decant, 
P res s off the roots, and add to the cola- 

ml' filter though paper. This 

a kes a strong, natural tasting essence. 

pt. --Green Ginger Extract. —The 
!er • § ln g e r root is freed from the epi- 
thp 1111 ' 3 ant ^ sur f a ce dried by exposure to 
)nt/."\ for a few hours. It is then cut 
dav "V^ces and macerated for some 
8D1V+ W , an ec iual weight of rectified 
^ l ' "which when filtered will yield an 



ful 2 or 3 times daily. 

Lemon Essences. — I. — Macerate the 
cut-up fresh peelings of 40 lemons and 30 
China oranges in 8 quarts of alcohol and 
2 quarts of water, for 2 or 3 days, then 
distil off 8 quarts. Every 100 parts 0' 
this distillate is mixed with 75 parts 
citric acid dissolved in 200 parts of wate 
colored with a trace of orange and filter- 
through talc. Each 200 parts of the 
trate is then mixed with 2 quarts 
syrup. 

II Twenty-live middle-sized lemt 

are thinly peeled, the peelings finely cu 
and the wfiole, lemons and peels, put t 
macerate in a mixture of 3 pints 90 per 

ture with equal parts or wai 
syru p. If it does o not afd t W col 
pipette, drop by drop, su t 
to make it do so. Fiy and co lo 
mixture 4 drachms of vanni ^ ^ 
with a few drops of tincture 
and a little caramel. 



25 nr 
orang 
v ery sma 



HI -Peel thinly and lightly. 

basked fresh * nd V er 
the pcelmg intc > ve 
pieces. Macerate J drachm ^ P 
cent alcohol, for 6 J^g" Di lute th 
macerate without P^ Bnd se t 
finShT^/Saking frequently 



816 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



the end of this time filter The filtrate 
faSsually clear, and if so, add 4 drachms 
if vanillin. H not, proceed as in the 
second formula above. , 

TV. — Oil of lemon, select, 8 fluid- 
ounces; oil of lemon grass (fresh), 1 
fluidrachm ; peel, freshly grated, of 12 
lemons; alcohol, 7 pints; boiled water, 

1 lVlix and macerate for 7 days. If 
in a hurry for the product percolate 
through the lemon peel and filter the 
addition of any other substance than the 
oil and rind of the lemon is not recom- 
mended. 

V. — Fresh oil of lemon 
Lemon peel (outer 
rind) freshly 

grated 

Oil of lemon grass 

Alcohol 500 parts 

let macerate for 14 days, and 



essence of lemons; 3 uaH* ~c i 

2L per f n V part &&££s u <* 

Subparts sodium phosphate™ \ \? Dat «; 
calcium citrate, and dissolve th* 
sufficient water to make 60 r^-l- ke hi 



64 parts 



32 
1 



parts 
part 



If ounces 



ounces 
ounces 



ounces 



Mix, 
filter, 

VI. — Essence of lemon 
Rectified spirit of 

wine 

Pure glycerine. . . 
Pure phosphate 

calcium 

Distilled water to make 1 pint. 

Mix essence of lemon, spirit of wine, 
glycerine, and 8 ounces of distilled water, 
agitate briskly in a quart bottle for 10 
minutes, and introduce phosphate of 
calcium and again shake. Put in a 
filter and let it pass through twice. 
Digest in filtrate for 2 or 3 days, add 1J 
ounces fresh lemon peel, and again filter. 

VIL— Oil of lemon 6 parts 

Lemon peel (fresh- 
ly grated) ...... 4 parts 

Alcohol, sufficient. 

Dissolve the oil of lemon in 90 parts of 
alcohol, add the lemon peel, and macer- 
ate for 24 hours. Filter through paper, 
adding through the filter enough alcohol 
to make the nitrate weigh 100 parts. 

"VIII. — Exterior rind of 

lemon 2 ounces 

Alcohol, 95 per 

cent, deodorized 32 ounces 
Oil of lemon, re- 
cent 3 fluidounccs 

Expose the lemon rind to the air until 
perfectly dry, then bruise in a wedgwood 
mortar, and add it to the alcohol, agitat- 
ing until the color is extracted; then add 
the lemon oil. 

Natural Lemon Juice. — I. — Take 4.20 
parts of crystallized citric acid; 2 parts 



strain it to get rid of theTeedsTrTd C**> 
particles of pulp, etc., heat it to the 1 g ^ 
mg point, let it cool down \ i i U 
shake well together and fil ter J %\ 
be kept a long time (as on » e^r, tG 
a little alcohol is added a VOya ^) 

Limejuice -This may be clarified bv 
heating it either alone or mixed with a sma U 
quantity of egg albumen, in a 
vessel, without stirring, to near the bS 
ing point of water, until the impurS 
have coagulated and either risen to the 
top or sunk to the bottom. It is then 
filtered into clean bottles, which should 
be_ completely filled and closed (with 
pointed corks), so that each cork has to 
displace a portion of the liquid to be 
inserted. The bottles are sealed and 
kept at an even temperature (in a cellar). 
In this way the juice may be satisfac- 
torily preserved. 

Nutmeg Essence. — Oil of nutmeg, 2 
drachms; mace, in powder, 1 ounce; al- 
cohol, 95 percent, deodorized, 32 ounces. 

Dissolve the oil in the alcohol by agi- 
tation, add the mace, agitate, then stop- 
per tightly, and macerate 12 hours. In- 
ter through paper. 

Orange Extract.— Grated peel of 24 
oranges; alcohol, 1 quart; water, 1 quart; 
oil of orange, 4 drachms. Macerate the 
orange peel and oil of orange with alco- 
hol for 2 weeks. Add distilled water 
and filter. 

Orange Extract, Soluble.— 1-— Pu " 

oil of orange, 1| fluid ounces; carbonate 
of magnesium, 2 ounces; aJcoflol, J* 
fluiduuoces; water, quantity sufficient w 
make 2 pints. , 

II.— Dissolve oil of orange in "J 
alcohol, and rub it with the ! carbonate^ 
magnesium, in a mortar. Tout u 
tare into a quart bottle, and nil lac ^ 
tie with water. Allow to macerate 1 ^ 
week or more, shaking ever ?.^' enol ,gli 



ad din 

water through trie paper to ma 
measure 2 pints. 

Orange Peel, Soluble Extract.— 
Freshly grated oraDge 

rind ^ ar t 

Deodorized alcohol.. - x P 



filter through paper, ^ uu ^. e titrate 



Add 



Macerate for 4 days and es P^ nt ' 0 f its 
the expressed liquid to 10 P er 
weight of powdered magnesium 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



M and rub thoroughly until a 
a mortar, * mature results; then 
VVfdrf A* ™ teT i constantly ,11- 
«r adUB 7 J stand for 48 hours, then filter 
ling. Lct ^ 1 Keepin an amber bottle 
through pap Tq makc gyru p 0 f ora nge 
^cooLpte™' this extract to 7 parts of 

^vy^ple^up. 
TJpach Extract. — . 

Aan? , , aieria g ounces 
Fluid extract on is. l 

Oenanthic ether ... 2 dractims 

Oil rue (pure Ger- ^ 

chKorm ; drachm. 

p] cerine 2 ounces 

Alcohol, 70 per cent, to 3 pints. 

Pineapple Essence. —X ripe but not 
taosoft pineapple, weighing about, say, 
Sound, is masned up in a mortar with 
tEv wine, 6 ounces. The mass is 
It brought into a flask with 1 pint of 
water, and allowed to stand 2 hours 
Alcohol, 90 per cent, | pint, is then added 
and the mixture distilled until 7 quarts 
of distillate have been collected. Cog- 
nac, 9 ounces, is then added to the dis- 
tillation. 

Pistachio Essence, — 

I. — Essence of almond 2 fluidounces 

Tincture of vanilla 4 fluidounces 
Oilofneroli 1 drop 

II. — Oil of orange peel . 4 fluidrachms 

Oil of cassia 1 fluidraehm 

Oil of bitter almond 15 minims 
Oil of calamus. ,. . 15 minims 

Oil of nutmeg H fluidrachms 

Oil of clove 30 minims 

Alcohol 12 fluidounces 

"Water.. 4 fluidounces 

Magnesium car- 
bonate 2 drachms 

Shake together, allow to stand 24 
hours, and Alter. 



j Pomegranate Essence. 
Oil of sweet orange 

1 



3 parts 

Oil of cloves 3 parts 

Tincture of vanilla. 15 parts 
tincture of ginger. 10 parts 
Maraschino liqueur 150 parts 
tincture of coccion- 

ella. 165 parts 

tnstiUed water 150 parts 

Phosphoric acid, 

dilute 45 parts 

Alcohol, 95 per cent, quantity suffi 
<uent to make 1,000 parts. 
Ml * and dissolve. 



Quince Extract 

Fluid extract orris.. .. % ounces 
Oenanthic ether 1 1 ° unces 

Alcohol, 70 per cent; to 3 piS; T* 
Raspberry Syrup, without Alcohol or 
Antiseptics.— The majority of producers 
of truit juices are firmly convinced that 
the preservation of these juices without 
the addition of alcohol, salicylic acid 
etc., is impossible. _ Herr Steiner's procl 
ess to the contrary is here reproduced: 

The fruit is crushed and pressed; the 
juice, with 2 per cent of sugar added, is 
poured into containers to about three- 
quarters of their capacity, and there al- 
lowed to ferment. The containers are 
stoppered with a cork through which 
runs a tube, whose open end is protected 
by a bit of gum tubing, the extremity of 
which is immersed in a glass filled with 
water. It should not go deeper than 
-yijj of an inch high. The evolution o( 
carbonic gas begins in about 4 hours 
and is so sharp that the point of the tube 
must not be immersed any deepen 

Ordinarily fermentation ceases on the 
tenth day, a fact that may be ascertained 
by shaking the container sharply, when, 
if it has ceased, no bubbles of gas will 
appear on the surface of the water. 

The fermented juice is then filtered to 
cet rid of the pectinic matters, yeast, etc., 
and the filtrate should be poured back on 
the filter several times The mice filters 
nuickly and comes off very clear. Ine 
Tees ary amount of sugar to make a 
"rup is now added to the liquid and a - 
lowed to dissolve gradually for 12 hours 
At the end of this time the liquid is put 
t the 6 fiTeand allowed to bod up ^t on- 

sugar is made ?° ^ fiUillg into 
through a tin strainer cess . 

heateS £ tL freshly 

The addition of su ^; 1 1 of cans- 
pressed juice has he ^vantage g ^ 
fug ^e fermentation to pr . vej by ^ 
full limit, and also to P tation , the 

alcohol P r ° duc f o d r0 7 t he jui« e - 
beautiful red color ot trie ju fce 

Any fermentatmn that. 7^ rf h 
mitted prior to the : p arQma an d 

juices i3 at ^ e th e J r pe f e rm ent a tion occurs 
flavor; but whether term j he 

gefore or ^S^fSan^ determine 
ordinary alcohol test <- e0Dap ietely 
itthJ the j^ c c o e n ^e b n5v whether the 
fermented ^J^m^tdy *P"»g2 
lectins have been c« i { he fact thai 



or 



not. 




ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



fermentation, the production of alcohol 
is progressing all the time — a demonstra- 
tion that fermentation cannot then be 
completed, and that at least 10 days will 
be required for this purpose. 

An abortive raspberry syrup is always 
due to an incomplete or faulty fermenta- 
tion, for too often does it occur that in- 
completely fermented Juices after a little 
time lose color and become turbid. 

The habit of clarifying juices by shak- 
ing up with a bit of paper, talc, etc., or 
boding with albumen is a useless waste 
of time and labor. By the process indi- 
cated the entire process of clarification 
occurs automatically, so to speak. 

Deep Red Raspberry Syrup. — A much 
deeper and richer color than that ordi- 
narily attained may be secured by add- 
ing to crushed raspberries, before fer- 
mentation, small quantities of sugar, sifted 
over the surface in layers. The ethylic 
alcohol produced by fermentation in this 
manner aids in the extraction of the 
red colorin'g matter of the fruit. More- 
over, the fermented juice should never 
be cooked over a lire, but by super- 
heated steam. Only in this way can 
caramclization be completely avoided. 
Only sugar free from ultramarine and 
chalk should be used in making the 
syrup, as these impurities also have a 
bad influence on the color. 

Raspberry Essences.— 
I. — Raspberries, fresh . . 16 ounces 

Angelica (California) 6 fluidounces 
Brandy (California) 6 ounces 

Alcohol 6 ounces 

Water, quantity sufficient. 

Mash the berries to a pulp in a mortar 
or bowl, and transfer to a flask, along 
with the Angelica, brandy, alcohol, and 
about 8 ounces of water. Let macerate 
overnight, then distil off until 32 ounces 
have _ passed over. Color red. The 
addition of a trifle of essence of vanilla 
improves this essence. 

II. — Fresh raspberries, . . 200 grams 

Water, distilled 100 grams 

Vanilla essence 2 grams 

Pulp the raspberries, let stand at a 
temperature of about 70° F. for 48 hours, 
and then add 100 grams of water. Fifty 
grams are then distilled off, and alcohol, 
90 per cent, 25 grams, in which 0.01 
vanillin has been previously dissolved, 
is added to the distillate. 

Sarsaparilla, Soluble Extract. — 
Pure oil of winter- 
green 5 fluidrackms 



Pure oil of sassa- 
fras ........... . 5 fluidrachm. 

Pure od of anise. . 5 flniri^ iT 3 

Carbonate of mag- fluidri "*ias 

A1 ne ?^ m n ounces 

Alcohol i pj nt 

Water, quantity sufficient to mat 
2 pints. mab e 

Dissolve the various oils in the alcol, t 
and rub with carbonate of magnesium 
a mortar. Pour the mixture iX 
quart bottle, and fill the bottle witK 
water. Allow to macerate for a we S 
or more, shaking every day. Then filter 
through the paper, adding enough water 
through the paper to make the finished 
product measure 2 pints. 

Strawberry Juice.— Put into the water 
bath 1,000 parts of distilled water and 
600 parts of sugar and boil, with con- 
stant skimming, until no more scum 
arises. Add 5 parts of citric acid and 
continue the boiling until about 1,250 
parts are left. Stir in, little by little, 
500 parts of fresh strawberries, properly 
stemmed, and be particularly careful 
not to crush the fruit. When all the 
berries are added, cover the vessel, re- 
move from the fire, put into a warm place 
and let stand, closely covered, for 3 hours, 
or until the mass has cooled down to the 
surrounding temperature, then strain off 
through flannel, being careful not to 
crush the berries. Prepare a sufficient 
number of pint bottles by filling them 
with warm water, putting them into a 
kettle of the same and heating them to 
boiling, then rapidly emptying and 
draining as quickly as possible. Into 
these pour the hot juice, cork and seal 
the bottles as rapidly as possible. Juice 
thus prepared retains all the aroma and 
flavor of the fresh berry, and if carefully 
corked and sealed up will retain its 
properties a year. 

Strawberry Essence. — 

Strawberries, fresh.. 16 ounces 
Angelica (California) 6 fluidounces 
Brandy (California) . 6 ounces 

Alcohol . .8 ounces 

Water, quantity sufficient. 
Mash the berries to a pulp in a mortar 
or bowl, and transfer to a flask, alo "^ l]t 
the Angelica, brandy, alcohol, and aDOu 
8 ounces of water. Let macerate ovci 
night, then distil off until 32 ounces 
passed over. Color strawberry tw- 
The addition of a little essence of ™ nl ". 
and a hint of lemon improves tuis 
sence. 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



319 



.. ^Extract. 

j !lBest Souchong tea 



175 parts 



Cinnamon g PJjg 

Cloves _ J part 

V«W"* .800 parts 

A rraCk ,200 parts 
Rum 



etc 



clove, 
macer- 



m V^^fjjen filter, press off, and 
1 000 parts, if necessary, by 
' The Souchong may be 
' oth„ 

arrack may be occupied 



16 



nn-wder the cinnamon, 
C ° a •Ae P h^rcdients J and let 3 

ate for 3 days 

niake up to 

ad # a ii r hv any'other brand of tea, and 
the plat e otU.^ ^ ^ England rum 
b ^ j^rinn of fluid extract, of kola nut 

ll I remarkably stimulating prop- 
k The preparation makes a clear 
Sluiion with either hot or cold water and 

keeps well. 

-it —Tea any desirable variety, 
ounces; glycerine, 4 ounces; hot water, 
Sts later, sufficient to make 1 pint. 

Reduce the tea to a powder, moisten 
with sufficient of the glycerine and a co- 
hol mixed, with 4 ounces of water added, 
pack in percolator, and pour on the alco- 
bl (diluted with glycerine and water) 
until 13 ounces of percolate have been 
obtained. Set this aside, and complete 
the percolation with the hot water. 
When this has passed through, evapo- 
rate to 4 ounces, and add it to the perco- 
late first obtained. 

Tonka Extract. — 

Tonka beans 1 ounce 

Magnesium carbonate, quantity suf- 
ficient. 

Balsam of Peru 2 drachms 

Sugar 4 ounces 

Alcohol 8 ounces 

Water sufficient to make 16 ounces. 
Mix the tonka, balsam of Peru, and 
magnesia, and rub together, gradually 
adding the sugar until a homogeneous 
powder is obtained. Pack in a percolator; 
mix the alcohol with an equal amount of 
Jjater, and pour over the powder, close 
™e exit of the percolator, and let macer- 
ate for 24 to 36 hours, then open the 
P^olator, and let pass through, gradu- 
*"y adding water until 16 ounces pass 
thiQugn. 

Vanilla Extracts. — I. — Vanilla, in fine 
i|s ago parts, is put into 1,350 parts of 

ctS i Fe ' of a,so ° P arts 95 P er cent al " 
C,? 01, and 1,500 parts distilled water. 

a^TJ- l, B»tly. Put on the water bath, 
« d digest for 1 hour, at 140° P. Pour 
ine hq u id and set aside. To the 
e m the hath add half the remain- 



£2 ^ Packet ^ SEme ^ 

ner. .rack the vanilla m an extraction 

apparatus and treat with 250 parts of 
alcohol and water, mixed in the same pro- 
portions as before. Mix the results of 
the three infusions first made, filter, and 
wash the filter paper with the results of 
the percolation, allowing the filtered per- 
colate to mingle with the filtrate of the 
mixed infusions. 

II. — Take 60 parts of the best vanilla 
beans, cut into little pieces, and put into 
a deep vessel, wrapped with a cloth to 
retain the heat as long as possible. 
Shake over the vanilla 1 part of potas- 
sium carbonate in powder, and immedi- 
ately add 240 parts distilled water, in an 
active state of ebullition. Cover the 
vessel closely, set aside until it is com- 
pletely cold, and then add 720 parts 
alcohol. Cover closely, and set aside in 
a moderately warm place for 15 days, 
when the liquid is strained off, the resi- 
due pressed, and the whole colate filtered. 
The addition of 1 part musk to the 
vanilla before pouring on the hot water 
improves this essence. 

To prepare vanilla fountain syrup 
with extracts I or II, mix 25 minims of the 
extract with 1 pint simple syrup. Color 
with caramel. 

HI.— Vanilla beans, cut 

fi ne 1 ounce 

Sugar":.'!... 3 ounces 

Alcohol, 50 per cent, 1 pint 
Beat sugar and vanilla together to a 
fine powdfr. Pour on the dilute alcohol, 
cSrVSie vessel, and let stand for g weeks, 
shaking it up 2 or 3 times a day. 



off 
tesid u 



IV. — Vanilla beans, 
chopped fine. . . 
Potassium carbon- 
ate 



30 parts 



1 part 

Essence of musk. 



1 part 



Dissolve the potassium ^^tver 



Diss0 lve tne V»"7rz- van illa, cover 
the boiling water ^ d J%\ moderately 
the vessel, and let stand fer t0 a 

pfcee untol cold fc 



wfde^mouthed (jar aou ^"T^ en decant 
and let macerate fo -J £ a * reirJ ainder. 

into small Ms; '»' r ° d in a «g 
which shoal" be w « " fa* as possibl 
en doth to retain h-i« ^ p0 P taSS1 a» 
Shake over the beans £ our 0 ver th« 
carbonate, in n P r Owder,.tn d ^ ... 



mass 240 P 




ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



-ctive state of ebullition, cover the vessel 
" i v and set aside in a moderately 
•2£mV<*. When quite cold add 720 

Jarts alcohol, close the vessel tightly, 
and set aside in a moderately warm 
place, to macerate for 15 days, then 
strain off, press out, and set aside for a 
day or two. The liquid may then be 
filtered and bottled. The addition of a 
little musk to the beans before pouring 
on the hot water, is thought by many to 
greatly improve the product. One part 
of this extract added to 300 parts simple 
syrup is excellent for fountain purposes. 

VI. — Vanilla beans Bounces 

Glycerine G ounces 

Granulated sugar. . . 1 pound 

Water 4 pints 

Alcohol of cologne 

spirits f 4- pints 

Cut or grind the beans very fine; rub 
with the glycerine and put in a wooden 
keg; dissolve the sugar in the water, first 
heating the water, if convenient; mix the 
water and spirits, and add to the vanilla; 
pour in keg. Keep in a warm place from 
3 to 6 months before using. Shake often. 
To clear, percolate through the dregs. If 
a dark, rich color is desired add a little 
sugar coloring. 

VII. — Vanilla beans, 

good quality.. 16 ounces 

Alcohol 64 fluid ounces 

Glycerine 24 fluidounces 

Water 10 finidounces 

Dilutealcohol, quantity sufficient. 
Mix and macerate, with frequent agi- 
;ation, for 3 weeks, titter, and add dilute 
alcohol to make 1 gallon. 

VIII. — Vanilla beans, 

good quality. . . 8 ounces 
Pumice stone, 

lump l ounce 

Rock candy 8 ounces 

Alcohol and water, of each a suffi- 
ciency. 

Cut the beans to fine shreds and trit- 
urate well with the pumice stone and rock 
candy. Place the whole in a percolator 
and percolate with a menstruum com- 
posed of 9 parts alcohol and 7 parts water 
until the percolate passes through clear, 
tfrmg the bulk up to 1 gallon with the 
same menstruum and set aside to ripen. 

IX.— Cut up, as finely as possible, 20 
parts of vanilla bean and with 40 parts of 
milk sugar (rendered as dry as possible 
by being kept in a drying closet until it 
no longer loses weight) rub to a coarse 
powder Moisten with 10 parts of 
dilute alcohol, pack somewhat loosely in 



a closed percolator and 1 D + 
hours Add 40 partTof diln ^ *<* 
close the percolator, and 1 P * , alc °hc 
At the end of this lime add W 8 C 
dilute alcohol, and let pass iht V arts of 
residue will repay wor& g ^V3 
well, add o parts of vanillin ^ 
parts of milk sugar and U ° 
sieve, then treat as bSovi thr ° U g h a 



0 parts 



The following are cheap extracts- 
\. — Vanilla beans, 
chopped fine. .' 
Tonka beans, 

powdered... ..' l0 , 
Sugar, powdered. 14 p arts 
Alcohol, 95 per 

w C ^ nt 25 parts 
Water, quantity sufficient tn 
make 100 parts. to 
Rub the sugar and vanilla to a fine 
powder, add the tonka beans, and bcor 
porate. Pack into a filter, and pour on 
10 parts of alcohol, cut with 15 parts of 
water; close the faucet, and let macerate 
overnight. In the morning percolate 
with the remaining alcohol, added to 80 
parts of water, until 100 parts of perco- 
late pass through. 

XI. — Vanilla beans 4 ounces 

Tonka beans 8 ounces 

Deodorized alcohol 8 pints 

Simple syrup 2 pints 

Cut and bruise the vanilla beans, 
afterwards bruising the tonka beans. 
Macerate for 14 days in one-half of the 
spirit, with occasional agitation. Pour 
off the clear liquor and set aside; pour 
the remaining spirits in the magma, and 
heat by means of the water bath to about 
170° F. in a loosely covered vessel. Keep 
at this temperature 2 or 3 hours, and 
strain through flannel, with slight pres- 
sure. Mix the two portions of Uqiwi, 
and filter through felt. Add the syrup 

White Pine and Tar Syrup.— 
White pine bark .... 75 parts 
Wild cherry bark. ... 75 parts 

Spikenard "root 10 parts 

Balm of Gilead buds 10 parts 
Sanguinaria root. ... 8 parts 

Sassafras bark Mparts 

Sugar 750 par s 

Chloroform 6 P ar ,, 

Syrup of tar "parts 

Alcohol, enough. 
Water, enough. rts . 
Syrup enough to make 1,0^ P a 
Reduce the first six ingredients Jo £ 
coarse powder and by using a ^ eni> . 50 £> 
composed of 1 in 3 alcohol, oDl t ^jg 
parts of a tincture from them- 



ESSENCES AND EXTRACTS 



sai 



the sugar, add tlie syrup of tar 
preform, and, finally enough 
p tlie tin- 



* lld hrin" the measure of 
^"Joroduct up to 1,000 parts 

—-, j rhp 

2 Quidraehms 
g Quidraehms 



vi ld Cherry Extract.- 



al- 



1 fluidrachm 



IN 



prepared as 



3 parts 
15 parts 



Oenanthic ether. 
Am)' 1 relate. 
Oil of fitter 
m onds (free from 
hydrocyanic acid) 

win id extract of wild , • 

* l , Z~ 3 fluidounces 

l ine ' " " « fl u ido u uces 

Deodorized alcohol enough to make 
16 fluidounces. 
HARMLESS COLORS FOR USE 
SVRUPS,ETC,: 
Red.— Cochineal syrup, 

follows: 
i _Cochincal in coarse 

powder 6 P arts 

Potassium carbon- 
ate 

Distilled water 

Alcohol, 95 per 

cen t 12 parts 

Simple syrup to make 500 parts. 
Rub the cochineal and potassium to- 
gether, adding the water and alcohol 
little by little, under constant trituration- 
Let stand overnight, add the syrup, and 
filter, 

II, — Carmine, in fine 

powder 1 part 

Stronger ammonia 

water 4 parts 

Distilled water to make 24 parts. 
Rub up the carmine and ammonia and 
to the solution add the water, little by 
little, under constant trituration. It iu 
standing this shows a tendency to sepa- 
rate, a drop or two of ammonia will cor- 
rect the trouble. 

Besides these theTe is caramel, which, 
of course, you know. 
Pink.— 

III. — Carmine 1 P& rt 

Liquor potassre. . ■ . 6 parts 

Distilled water 40 parts 

Mix. If the color is too high, dilute 
TMth distilled water until the requisite 
color is obtained. 

K To Test Fruit Juices and Syrups for 
Aniline Colors.— Add to a sample ot the 
s J*Tup or juice, in a test tube, its own 
volume of distilled water, and agitate to 



filtrate will be clear as crystal, since the 
lead salt precipitates natural coloring 
matters, but has no effect upon the an£ 
line colors. 

To Test Fruit Juices for Salicylic Acid. 
—Put a portion of the juice to be tested 
m a large test tube, add the same volume 
of ether, close the mouth of the tube and 
snake gently for 30 seconds. Set aside 
until the liquid separates into two layers. 
Draw off the supernatant ethereal por- 
tion and evaporate to dryness in a cap- 
sule. Dissolve the residue in alcohol, 
dilute with 3 volumes of water, and add 
1 drop of tincture of iron chloride. If 
salicylic acid be present the character- 
istic purple color will instantly disappear. 



Syrups Selected from the Formulary 
of the Pharmaceutical Society of 
Antwerp . — 

Diamine Srjrup. — Dionine, 1 part; dis- 
tilled water, 19 parts; simple syrup, 1,980 
parts. Mix. 

Jaborandi Syrup. —Tincture of jabor 
audi, 1 part; simple syrup, 19 parts. Mi: 
Canvallaria Syrup. — Extract of co 
vallaria, 1 part; distilled water, 4 pa 
simple syrup, 95 parts. Dissolve the 
tract in the water and mix. 

Codeine Phosphate Syrup— Codeine phos 
phate, 3 parts; distilled water, 17 parts 
simple syrup, 980 parts. Di??olveth€ : c 
deine in the water and mix with the syru 
Licorice Syrup.-Incised licorice root 
parts; dilute solution of ammonia, 1 p* 
water 20 parts. Mix and macerate f 
W hours at 58° to 66° F. with freque 
Citation- press, heat the liquid to bo 

the final weight to 20 V^f- 

stigmas, 1 P ar ^S le Dissolve thee: 
SmS^^-daddthesyr^ 
tract in mv. T7 , ■ ^ Solution,— 

momum valerianate^ zy d wftt , 

tract of valerian, 1 part, a 
47 parts. PoW dered kola nuts, 

part; alcohol, 60 per ^ ^ 
rate for 6 days, F ^-Tincture 

Bid** ^^rf Ssemary. ohU 
ntharideb, tincxui 



ore 



? ft t a thorough mixture, then add a few 
$°Ps of the standard solution of Lead 
^acetate, shake, and filter. If the syrup 
w free from aniline coloring matter tne 



SrZequalparts. tone , i r 

for sevei 

days. 



32$ 



ETCHING 



Etching 

General Instructions for Etching. — 
In etching, two factors come into con- 
sideration, (1) that which covers that 
part of the metal not exposed to the 
etching fluid:, (the resist), and (2) the 
etching fluid itself. ... 

In the process, a distinction is to be 
made between etching in _ relief and 
etching in intaglio. In relief etching, 
the design is drawn or painted upon the 
surface with the liquid etching-ground, 
so that after etching and removal of the 
etching-ground, it appears raised. In 
intaglio etching, the whole surface is 
covered with the etching-ground, and 
the design put on with a needle; the 
ground being thus removed at the points 
to, ached by the drawing, the latter, after 
etching and removal of the etching- 
ground, is sunken. 

Co vering Agents or Resists. — The plate 
is enclosed by a border made of grafting 
wax (yellow beeswax, 8 parts; pine rosin, 
10 parts; beef tallow, 2 parts; turpentine, 
10 parts); or a mixture of yellow wax, 
8 parts; lard, 3 parts; Burgundy pitch, 
J part. This mixture is also used to 
cover the sides of vessels to be etched. 
Another compound consists of wax, 5 
parts; cobbler's wax, 2 % parts; turpentine, 

1 part. 

Etching - Ground. I. - Soft : Wax, 

2 parts; asphalt, 1 part; mastic, 1 part. 

II. — Wax, 3 parts; asphalt, 4 parts. 

III. — Mastic, 16 parts; Burgundy pitch, 
50 parts; melted wax, 125 parts; and 
melted asphalt, 200 parts added succes- 
sively, and, after cooling, turpentine oil, 
500 parts. If the ground should be deep 
black, lampblack is added. 

Hard: Burgundy pitch, 125 parts; 
rosm, 125 parts, melted; and walnut oil, 
100_ parts, added, the whole to be boiled 
until it can be drawn out into long 
threads. 

\ Etching-Ground for Copper Engrav- 
ing.— White wax, 120 parts; mastic, 15 
parts; Burgundy pitch, 60 parts; Syrian 
asphalt, 120 parts, melted together; and 
5 parts concentrated solution of rubber 
in rubber oil added. 

Ground for Relief Etching. — I. — Syrian 
asphalt, 500 parts, dissolved in turpen- 
tine oil, 1,000 parts. II.— Asphalt, rosin, 

a j 200 P arts of each > are melted, 

and dissolved in turpentine oil, 1,200 
parts. The under side of the metal plate 
13 Protected by a coating of a spirituous 
shellac solution, or by a solution of as- 
phalt, 300 parts, in benzol, 600 parts. 




For Strong y Acid Solutions -T 
Black pitch, 1 part; Japanese C 1 — 
parts; rosin, 1} parts; Damar , ^ S 
part, melted together and™?? 111 '. } 
turpentine od, 1 part. H __ lTp Ued . *«I 
printers' ink, 3 parts; rosin, I 3 • Uck 
1 part. ' pan > va,x, 

For electro-etching, the foil ■ 
ground is recommended: Wax 4 Wln 8 
asphalt, 4 parts ; pitch, 1 par t. ' parts 5 

If absolute suretv is recmhwl ^ 
ing the resistance of the $^3** 
to the action of the etching flu3f,S 
etching-grounds are put on, one over S 
other; first (for instance), a solution of 
rubber in benzol, then a spirituous shel 
lac solution and a third stratum of 
asphalt dissolved in turpentine oil 

If the etching is to he of different de 
grees of depth, the places where it is to 
be faint are stopped out with varnish 
after they are deep enough, and the oh' 
ject is put back into the bath for further 
etching. 

For putting on a design before the 
etching, the following method may be 
used: Cover the metal plate, tin plate 
for example, with a colored or colorless 
spirit varnish; after drying, cover this, in 
a dark room, with a solution of gelatin, 
5 parts, and red potassium chroinate, 1 
part, in water, 100 parts; or with a 
solution of albumen, 2 parts; ammonium 
bichromate, 2 parts, in water, .200 parts, 
After drying, put the plate, covered with 
a stencil, in a copying or printing frame, 
and expose to light. The sensitive gela- 
tin stratum will become insoluble at the 
places exposed. Place in water, and the 
gelatin will be dissolved at the places 
covered by the stencil; dry, and remove 
the spirit varnish from the places with 
spirit, then put into the etching fluid. 

Etching Fluids. —The etching fluid is 
usually poured over the metallic surface, 
which" is enclosed in a border, as de- 
scribed before. If the whole object is Jo 
be put into the fluid, it must he entirely 
covered with the etching-ground. After 
etching it is washed with pure water, 
dried with a linen cloth, and the etching- 
ground is then washed oil' with turpentine 
oil or a light volatile camphor oil- 
latter is very good for the purpose 




deep etching with an equal weignt 
water. . , . . 

II.— Tartaric acid, 1 part, by weig £ 
mercuric chloride, 15 parts, by *^ g gQ 
water, 420 parts; nitric acid, 16 
drops, if 1 part equals 28* grains. 



ETCHING 



823 



1 part; 
acid, 6 



TTT -Spirit, 80 per cent, 120 parts by 
■ nure nitric acid, 8 parts; silver 
weight , pur^ 

^t" v!i-pure acetic acid, 30 per cent, 40 
x hv weiffht; absolute alcohol, 10 
P af ? cure nitric acid, 10 parts. 
P « Turning nitric acid, 10 parts, by 
DiS Scrtfc acid, 30 per cent, 50 
W Muted with water if necessary or 
pEtrts, u 

5eS VT -A chromic acid solution. 

VII —Bromine, 1 part; water, 100 
v; Or— mercuric chloride, 1 part; 
parts. w 

W 1ail^ P Antimonic chloride, 
water, 6 parts; hydrochloric 

P!i For Delicate Etchings on Steel. I.— 
Iodine, 2 parts; potassium iodide, 4 parts; 
water, 40 parts. . 

TT JLsdver acetate, 8 parts, by weight; 
alcohol, 250 parts; water, 250 parts; pure 
Sric acid, 260 parts; ether, 04 parts; 
oxalic acid, 4 parts 

III.— A copper chloride solution. 

Etching Powder for Iron and Steel.— 
Blue vitriol, 50 parts; common salt, 50 
parts; mixed and moistened with water. 

For lustrous figures on a dull ground, 
as on sword blades, the whole surface is 
polished, the portions which are to re- 
main bright covered with stencils and 
the object exposed to the fumes of nitric 
acid. This is best done by pouring sul- 
phuric acid, 20 parts, over common salt, 
10 parts. 

Relief Etching of Copper, Steel, and 
Brass. — Instead of nitric acid, which has 
a tendency to lift up the etching-ground, 
by_ evolution of gases, it is better to use a 
mixture of potassium bichromate, 150 
parts; water, 800 parts; and concentrated 
sulphuric acid, 200 parts. The etching 
is slow, but even, and there is no odor. 

For Etching Copper, Brass, and Tom- 
bac—Pure nitric acid diluted with water 
to 18° Be. The bubbles of gas given out 
should immediately be removed with a 
feather that the etching may be even. 
, Another compound consists of a boil- 
ln g solution of potassium chlorate, 2 
Parts, in water, 20 parts, poured into a 
fixture of nitric acid, 10 parts, and 
Tvater, 70 parts. For delicate etchings 
dilute still more with 100 to 200 parts of 
"Water. 

Etching Fluid for Copper.— Weak: A 
°onmg solution of potassium chlorate, 
*0 parts, in water, 200 parts, poured into 
a mixture of pure hydrochloric acid, 20 
Parts; water, 500 parts. 

stronger: A boiling solution of potas- 



iHSL c ^ lora H 25 parts, in water, 2 
parts, poured into a mixture of nure 
hydrochloric acid, 250 parts; wa?er, P 4 0 S 

Very strong; A boiling solution c 
potassium chlorate, 30 parts, in water, 
300 parts, poured into a mixture of pure 
hydrochloric acid, 300 parts; water 300 
parts. 

For etching on copper a saturated 
solution of bromine m dilute hydro- 
chloric acid may also be used; or a mix- 
ture of potassium bichromate, $ part; 
water, 1 part; crude nitric acid, 3 parts. " 

The following are also much used for 
copper and copper alloys: 

I- — A copper chloride solution acidi 
tied with hydrochloric acid. 

II. — Copper nitrate dissolved in water 

III. — A ferric chloride solution of 30° 
to 45° Be. If chrome gelatin or chror 
albumen is used for the etching-groum 
a spirituous ferric chloride solution is 
employed. The etching process can be 
made slower by adding common salt to 
the ferric chloride solution. 

Matt Etching of Copper. — White vi- 
triol, 1 to 5 parts; common salt, 1 part; 
concentrated sulphuric acid, 100 parts; 
nitric acid (36° Be.), 200 parts, mixed 
together. The sulphuric acid is to be 
poured carefully into the nitric acid, not 
the reverse. 

Etching Fluid for Brass.— Nitrie acid, 
8 parts; mixed with water, 80 parts; into 
this mixture pour a hot solution of potas- 
sium chlorate, 3 parts, in water, 50 parts. 

Etching Fluid for Brass to Make 
Stencils. -Mix nitric acid, of 1.3 specific 
""with enough fuming rntnc acid 
tn snve a deep yellow color, inis mix 
HA acts viXIly, and will eat through 



the strongest sheet brass. 

Etching Fluid for ^--^gS^L 

may also be used to etch 



zinc. 



Relief Etching of Zmc. i a latmum 
to be drawn with a solution o P ^ 
chloride, 1 part, and rubb^ .P 
water, 12 parts. The one P 
in dilute sulphuric aad U ft ^ 

black drawing ^jT^th^ drawing is 
Another compound tor cQpper 

ade of blue vitriol, * P e 
parts; water 04 p * 



chloride! 37P ar S n W fr'specinc 
hydrochloric ac d l^^P ^ pUte 



11 




ETCHING 



"Etching Fluid for Aluminum. — Dilute 
hydrochloric acid serves this purpose. 
Aluminum containing iron can be mat- 
ted with soda lye, followed by treatment 
with nitric acid. The lye dissolves the 
aluminum, and the nitric acid dissolves 
the iron. Aluminum bronze is etched 
with nitric acid. 

Etching Fluid for Tin or Pewter.— 
Ferric chloride, or highly diluted nitric 
acid. 

Etching Fluids for Silver. — I. — Dilute 
pure nitric acid. 

II. — Nitric acid (specific weight, 
1.185), 172 parts; water, 320 parts; 
potassium bichromate, 30 parts. 

Etching Fluid for Gold. — Dilute aqua 
regia (^nitric and sulphuric acids, in the 
proportion of 1 in 3). 

Etching Fluid for Copper, Zinc, and 
Steel. — A mixture of 4 parts of acetic 
acid (30 per cent), and alcohol, 1 part; 
to this is added gradually, nitric acid, 1 
part. 

Etching Fluid for Lead, Antimony, 
md Britannia Metal. — Dilute nitric acid. 

Etching Powder for Metals (Tin, 
Silver, Iron, German Silver, Copper, and 
Zinc). — Blue vitriol, 1 part; ferric oxide, 
4 parts. The powder, moistened, is ap- 
plied to the places to be etched, as, for 
instance, knife blades. Calcined green 
vitriol can also be used. 

Electro-Etching.— This differs from 
ordinary etching in the use of a bath, 
which does not of itself affect the metal, 
but is made capable of doing so by the 
galvanic current 

Ordinary etching, seen under the 
microscope, consists of a succession of 
uneven depressions, which widen out 
considerably at a certain depth. In elec- 
tro-etching, the line under the micro- 
scope appears as a perfectly even furrow, 
not eaten out beneath, however deeply 
cut. The work is, accordingly, finer and 
sharper; the fumes from the acids are 
also avoided, and the etching can be 
modified by regulation of the current, 
lne preparation of the surface, by cov- 
ering stopping-out, etc., is the same as 
in ordinary etching. At some uncovered 
P -tP e a j. conduc ting wire is soldered on 
with soft solder, and covered with a coat 
pt varnish. The plate is then suspended 
in the bath, and acts as the anode, with 
another similar plate for the cathode, 
■t gradations in etching are desired, the 
nates are taken out after a time, rinsed, 
and covered, and returned to the bath. 
l"or the bath dilute acids are used, 



or saline solutions. Thus for 
dilute sulphuric acid, 1 i n 20 r Ca PP er > 



per and mass, a blut 



per auu uiaas, a, DlUe Vitriol o„f 

For zinc, white vitriol or a SL °l? Xl ?*' 
solution. For steel and i ron Wande 
vitriol, or an ammonium chlori,'i^ SCe , ei1 
tion. For tin, a tin-salt Sion? 



sil 



a silver nitrate or potassii",™ 
nide solution. For gold and S Cya " 
gold . chloride and platim pla - tlllUl *. 



solutions, or a potassmm'^niSp 1 !"!* 16 
turn. For electro-etching . ESSdgfc 
Bunaen battery is to be recommended 
In the former, the negative kit,* ™f T 



i. t -li , -6 dIlv e zinc pole is 
connected with a plate of the aame metS 
as that to be etched, and the position 
pole with the plate to be etched T n \ll 
Bunsen battery, the carbon pole is cot. 
nected with the object to be etched til 
zinc pole with the metal plate. 

Etching Bath for Brass.— 1.— Mix 
nitric acid (specified gravity, 14} g 
parts, with water, SO parts. 2. —Chlorate 
of potash, 3 parts, dissolved in 50 parts 
of water. Mix J and 2. For protecting 
those portions which are not to be etched, 
any suitable acid-proof composition can 
be used. 

Etching on Copper. — I. — In order to 
do regular and quick etching on copper 
take a copper plate silvered on the etch- 
ing side. Trace on this plate, either with 
varnish or lithographic ink, the design. 
When the tracing is dry, place the plate 
in an iron bath, using" a battery. The 
designs traced with the varnish" or ink 
arc not attacked by the etching fluid. 
When the plate is taken from the bath 
and has been washed and dried, remove 
the varnish or ink with essence of turpen- 
tine; next pour mercury on the places 
reserved by the varnish or ink; the mer- 
cury will attack the silvered portions and 
the etching is quickly made. When the 
mercury has done its duty gather up the 
excess and return to the bottle with a 
paper funnel. Wash the plate in strong 
alum water, and heat. 

, II.— The plate must be first polished 
either with emery or fine pumice stone, 
and after it has been dried with care, 
spread thereon a varnish composed of 
equal parts of yellow wax and essence 
of turpentine. The solution of the wax 
in the essence is accomplished in tfl ^ 
cold; next a little oil of turpentine and 
some lampblack are added. This var- 
nish is allowed to dry on, away fr° ra 
dust and humidity. When <fcy»-J^jJ! 
the design with a very fine point Make 
a border with modeling wax, so as to pre- 
vent the acid from running oil. T° ur on 
nitric acid if the plate is of copper, o 



I 



ETCHING 



325 



, i ,,V add diluted with water if 
i,ydroch )orlc nf • al i oW the acid to act 
S pl?;V „ the desired depth of the en- 
,1 times and remove 



deling to th 
S%g ; ;l a by hlatfnVtle'plate lightly, 
the T ar 5ll \sseace of turpentine and dry 

stove. I 1 or 
. nis are traced 
relief e^ ft J^f a ^ ff "on the plate with 

ie 



w ' ell f Graving the desigi 
relief ejg*^ ? av ing on the plate wix. 
? f f °?si va nish instead of covering th 
the resist v These designs must be 
P 1 ^ St executed and without laps, as 
^ Ate away all the parts not pro- 
fited by the varnish, 
etching Fluids for Copper -L- A 
E fllnfr fluid for copper plate is hy- 
^ etching h^a jj 

dr0gC iKa er \ added. It is said to 
ffiaTery rapidly, and with great regu- 
Witv and uniformity. , 
Ut /--Another fluid is fuming hydro- 
tfloric acid (specific gravity, 1.19), 10 

Z water 70 parts. To this add a 
Suti^of potassfum chlorate, S parts 

Sd in 20 parts of hot water. If 
the articles to be etched are very delicate 
and fine this should be diluted with from 
100 to 200 parts of water. 

ETCHING ON GLASS. 

Names, designs, etc., can be etched on 
glass in three ways: First, by means or an 
engraving wheel, a method which requires 
some manual skill. Second, by means of a 
sand blast, making a stencil of the name, 
fixing this on the glass, and then, by means 
of a blast of air, blowing sand on the glass. 
Third, by the use of hydrofluoric acid. 
The glass is covered with beeswax, par- 
affine wax, or some acid resisting ink or 
varnish - , the name or device is then 
etched out of the wax by means of a knife, 
and the glass dipped in hydrofluoric acid, 
which eats away the glass at those parts 
where the wax has been cut away- 
Fancy work, ornamental figures, let- 
tering, and monograms are most easily 
and neatly cut into glass by the sand- 
blast process. Lines and figures on 
tu bes, jars, etc., may be deeply etched by 
smearing the surface of the glass with 
beeswax, drawing the lines with a steel 
Point, and exposing the glass to the fumes 
of hydrofluoric acid. This acid is ob- 
tained by putting powdered fluorspar 
? n to a t ra y made of sheet lead and pour- 
™g sulphuric acid on it, after which the 
H" a y is slightly warmed. The propor- 
^ 0l is will vary with the purity of the 
"^terials used, fluorspar (except when in 
fystals) being generally mixed with a. 
ar ,ge quantity of other matter. Enough 
* CJ a to mate a thin te t h e pow- 
Qer ed spar will be about right. Where a 



acid poured on it and left for so me W 
As a general rule, the marks areTpa ™' 
but sometimes they are transparent ^ In 

bUef vLnTsh h rth eeply antffiU 4 « 
varnish, if they are required to be 



plain as in the case of graduated 
els. Liquid hydrofluoric acid has 



very 

vessels, liquid hydrofluoric "acid 
been recommended for etching but is 
not always suitable, as it leaves the 
surtace on which it acts transparent. 

There are two methods of marking 
bottles — dry etching, or by stamping 
with etching inks. The first process is 
usually followed in glass factories. A 
rubber stamp is necessary for this proc- 
ess, and the letters should be made a 
large and clean cut as possible withou 
crowding them too much. Besides this 
an etching powder is required. 

A small quantity of the powder 
poured into a porcelain dish, and this is 
placed on a sand bath or over a geutl 
fire, and heated until it is absolutely drj . 
so that it can be rubbed down to an im- 
palpable powder. 

The bottle or other glass to be marked 
must be perfectly clean and dry. The 
etching powder takes better when the 
vess el is somewhat warm. The stair- 
should be provided with a roller which 
kept constantly supplied with a viscid oJ 
which it distributes ou the stamp and 
which the stamp transfers to .the glass 
surface The powder is dusted on the 
mprintthus maSe, by mean- o fa came l| 
hair brush. Any surplus falling on tne 
unoUed surface 

fine long-haired P^^^p place and 
bottle is transferred to a damp J 
kept for several minutes, tn ea an 
aiding the etching -ell 
the glass surface. 1 ne doiu 
washed in plain ^ ater ' fl ks ea rboys, 

etc., may be tr ^ a gtamp here is inserted, 
ent manner The stamp horlzon tal 
face upward, *> ct ^_e7that its face 
boardsf in such < l man* J \\ m illimeter 

projects ^^X^Swd^, 
fsav 0.01 inch) above - ™ hic h the 

i applied to the l^^fTot, is rollej 
cylinder carboy, the stamp, 

along the board a nd transferred* 

operation is as in ^^re the 

F For an etchmg nded: 
following is recom dfae hms 
Ammonium fluoride . . g drachmS 
Barium sulphate. ^ orta . 

Reduce to a fine P ov - 



then transfer to a lead dish, and make into 
a thin writing-cream with hydrofluoric 
acid or fuming sulphuric acid. Use a 
piece of lead to stir the mixture. The 
ink may be put up in bottles coated with 
paraffine, which can be done by heating 
the bottle, pouring in some melted paraf- 
fine, and letting it flow all around. The 
writing is done with a quill, and in about 
half a minute the ink is washed off. 

Extreme caution must be observed in 
handling the acid, since when brought in 
contact with the skin it produces dan- 
gerous sores very difficult to heal. The 
vapor is also dangerously poisonous 
when inhaled. 

Hydrofluoric Formulas. — I. — Dissolve 
about 0.72 ounces fluoride of soda with 
0.14 ounces sulphate of potash in * pint 
of water. Make another solution of 0.2S 
ounces chloride of zinc and 1.30 ounces 
hydrochloric acid in an equal quantity of 
water. Mix the solutions and apply to 
the glass vessel with a pin or brush. At 
the end of half an hour the design should 
be sufficiently etched. 

II. — A mixture consisting of ammo- 
nium fluoride, common salt, and carbon- 
ate of soda is prepared, and then placed 
in a gutta-percha bottle containing fum- 
ing hydrofluoric acid and concentrated 
sulphuric acid. In a separate vessel 
which is made of lead, potassium fluoride 
is mixed with hydrochloric acid, and a 
little of this solution is added to the 
former, along with a small quantity of 
sodium silicate and ammonia. Some 
of the solution is dropped upon a rubber 
pad, and by means of a suitable rubber 
stamp, bearing the design which is to be 
reproduced, is transferred to the glass 
vessel that is to be etched. 

Etching with Wax.— Spread wax or 
a preservative varnish on the glass, and 
trace on this wax or varnish the letters 
or designs. If letters are desired, trace 
them by hand or by the use of letters 
cut out in tin, which apply on the wax, 
the inside contours being taken with a 
fine point. When this is done, remove 
the excess of wax from the glass, leav- 
ing only the full wax letters undis- 
turbed. Make an edge of wax all along 
the glass plate so as to prevent the acid 
train running over when vou pour it on 
to attack the glass. At the end of 3 to 4 
i, ra . r f; move the acid, wash the glass 
well with hot water, next pour on essence 
ot turpentine or alcohol to take off the 
wax or the preservative varnish. Pass 
again through clean water; the glass 
P - j i, ave becom « dead wherever the 
acid has eaten id, only the letters remain- 



ing polished. For fancy designs it i 
flees to put on the back of tE plated 
black or colored varnish, or tin foil + 
to obtain a brilliant effect. * 

Etching Glass by Means of Glue — t* 
is necessary only to cover a pi ece of "i 1 
nary or flint glass with a coat of a hj c §■£ 
solved on water in order to sec that 
layer of glue, upon contracting through 
the effect of drymg, becomes detached 
from the glass and removes therefrom 
numerous scales of varying thickne* 
The glass thus etched presents a sort of 
regular and decorative design similar to 
the flowers of frost deposited on window 
panes in winter. -When salts that are 
readily crystalhzable and that exert no 
chemical action upon the gelatin are 
dissolved in the latter the figures etched 
upon the glass exhibit a crystalline ap- 
pearance that recalls fern fronds. 

< Hyposulphite of soda and chlorate and 
nitrate of potash produce nearly the same 
effects. A large number of mineral sub- 
stances are attacked by gelatin. Tough- 
ened glass is easily etched, and the same 
is the case with fluorspar and polished 
marble, A piece of rock crystal, cut at 
right angles with the axis and"coated with 
isinglass, the action of which seems to be 
particularly^ energetic, is likewise at- 
tacked at different points, and the parts 
detached present a conchoidal appear- 
ance. Trie contraction of the gelatin 
may be rendered visible by applying a 
coating of g] ue to sheets of cardboard or 
lead, which bend backward in drying 
and assume the form of an irregular 
cylinder. 

Such etching of glass and different 
mineral substances by the action of gela- 
tin may be employed for the decoration 
of numerous objects. 

Dissolve some common glue in ordi- 
nary water, heated by a water bath, and 
add 6 per cent of its weight of potash 
alum. After the glue has become per- 
fectly melted, homogeneous, and of the 
consistency of syrup, applv a layer, while 
it is still hot, to a glass object by means 
of a brush. If the object is of ground 
glass the action of the glue will be still 
more energetic. After half an hour ap- 
ply a second coat in such a way as to ob- 
tain a smooth, transparent surface desti- 
tute of air bubbles. After the gluenaa 
become so hard that it no longer yields to 
the pressure of the finger nail (say, i n 
about 24 hours), put the article m » 
wanner place, in which the temperature 
must not exceed 105° F. When the 
object is removed from the oven, after ■ a 
few hours, the glue will detach itself wita 



• „nd removes with it numerous 
t n« ise f „i ass All that the piece then 
flakes oi b carefully washed and 

requires is 

drl ^; Jesi^rns thus obtained are not al- 
tlie same, the thickness of the coat 
T-Ifne the time of drying, and various 
i g renditions seeming to act to modify 
t tf form and number of the flakes de- 

ta Tt e fs indispensable to employ glass 
nb - ects of adequate thickness, since, m 
?nJerin^ mousseline glass with a layer of 
fnc the mechanical action that it has to 
Sort during desiccation is so powerful 

Mi it will breuk wlth ? n e^P 1031 , 011 - 
rhie therefore, must not be allowed to 
jL in dass vessels, since they would be 
corroded and broken in a short time. 

Indelible Labels on Bottles. — To affix 
indelible labels on bottles an etching 
liquid is employed which is produced as 
follows: a 

Liquid I, in one bottle. — Dissolve 36 
parts of sodium fluoride in 500 parts of 
distilled water and add 7 parts of potas- 
sium sulphate. 

Liquid II, in another bottle.— Dissolve 
zinc chloride, 14 parts, in 500 parts of dis- 
tilled water, and add 65 parts of concen- 
trated hydrochloric acid. 

For use mix equal parts together and 
add a little dissolved India ink to render 
the writing more visible. 

The mixing cannot, however, be con- 
ducted in a vessel. It is best to use a. 
cube of paraffine which has been hol- 
lowed out. 

Etching on Marble or Ivory (see 
also Ivory).— Cover the objects with a 
coat of wax dissolved in 90 per cent 
alcohol, then trace the desired designs 
by removing the wax with a_ sharp 
tool and distribute on the tracing the 
following mixture: Hydrochloric acid, 
1 part; acetic acid, 1 part. Eepeat 
this operation several times, until the 
desired depth is attained. Then take 
°n the varnish with alcohol. The eteh- 
v 11 ? may be embellished, filling up the 
b ?Uows with any colored varnish, by 
Wiping the surface with a piece of linen 
on a stick, to rub the varnish into 
lQ e cavities after it has been applied with 
a brush. The hollows may be gilded or 
Jeered by substituting "mixtion" for 
ne varnish and applying on this mixtion 

littl i ° f gold or sllver > cut in pieces a 
e " , la '«er than the design to be cov- 
sofE u press dow n the gold by means of a 
th k sh so aa to cause it to penetrate to 
ttom ; let dry and remove the pro- 
dding edges. 



powder will suck, forming a heavy boat- 
ing in 2 or 3 operations* Before To 
ceeding to heat up, the plate Tol\£]t 
ceive a light etching in J weak solution 
ot the acid described later on. The 
purpose of this preliminary etching is t 
clean up the print, so that the lines wi 11 
not tend to thicken, as would be the caa 
otherwise. Next a good strong heatin 
should be given. On top the dragon' 
blood plumbago may be used in addition 
For etching use nitric acid mixed wi 
an even amount of acetic acid. Som 
operators use vinegar, based on the sam 
theory. When commencing the etchin 
start with a weak solution and increase 
soon as the plate is deep enough to alio 
another powdering. If the operator 
familiar with lithography, and unde 
stands rolling up the print with a lith 
roller, the etching of steel is not hard 
than etching on zinc. 

Liquids for Etching Steel. — 

I. — Iodine ........... 2 parts 

Potassium iodide. . 5 parts 
Water 40 parts 

II,— Nitric acid 60 parts 

Water 120 parts 

Alcohol.. 200 parts 

Copper nitrate 8 parts 

HI, —Glacial acetic acid . 4 parts 

Nitric acid 1 part 

Alcohol 1 P art 

TV Mix 1 ounce sulphate of copper, 

ounce alum, § teaspoonful of salt (reduce 

SeS either (or etching deeply or fo 
frosting according to .4. to. * ^ 
lo ? ed to act l h fP a t r ched should be 
£S£Ml sector some similar 
T&c acid, 60 pa* water 1£ 

pa rta; alcohol, W ; part*; -» eIe d 
bate, S parts Keep m. g ^ 

bottle. lo use rue ; . co 

face to be marked with a . t* & m 
of wax and mark the un ^ 
chinist's senber. « F gcriber ?r 
waste > the applying 

stick, and dip va ™ e u f CT / rmnut 
the marked surface- l ^ ^ n _ fi 
the wax may be scrap b 

15neS 1 TL wax The drippings fro 
marked the wax. fc use ? 

lhrhted wax candle can u 



328 



ETCHING— EXPLOSIVES 



coating, and this may be evenly spread 
with a knife heated in the candle flame. 

VI. — For Hardened Steel. — Heat an 
iron or an old pillar-file with a smooth 
side, and with it spread a thin, even coat 
of beeswax over the brightened surface to 
be etched. With a sharp lead pencil 
(which is preferable to a scriber) write 
or mark as wanted through the wax so as 
to be sure to strike the steel surface. 
Then daub on with a stick etching acid 
made as follows: Nitric acid, 3 parts; 
muriatic acid, 1 part. If a lead pencil 
has been used the acid will begin to bub- 
ble immediately. Two or three minutes 
of the bubbling or foaming will be suf- 
ficient for marking; then soak up the 
acid with a small piece of blotting paper 
and remove the beeswax with a piece of 
cotton waste wet with benzine, and if 
the piece be small enough dip it into a 
saturated solution of sal soda, or if the 
piece be large swab over it with a piece of 
waste. This neutralizes the remaining 
acid and prevents rusting, which oil will 
not do. 

If it is desired to coat the piece with 
beeswax without heating it, dissolve 
pure beeswax in benzine until of the 
consistency of thick cream and pour on 
to the steel, and even spread it by rocking 
or blowing, and lay aside for it to harden ; 
then use the lead pencil, etc., as before. 
This method will take longer. Keep 
work from near the fire or an open flame. 

EUCALYPTUS BONBONS FOR COLDS 
AND COUGHS: 

See Cold and Cough Mixtures. 

EXPECTORANTS : 

See Cold and Cough Mixtures. 

Explosives 

Explosives may be divided into two 
great classes — mechanical mixtures and 
chemical compounds. In the former the 
combustible substances are intimately 
mixed with some oxygen supplying 
materia], as in the case of gunpowder, 
where carbon and sulphur are inti- 
mately mixed with potassium nitrate; 
while gun cotton and nitro-glycerine are 
examples of the latter class, where each 
molecule of the substance contains the 
necessary oxygen for the oxidation of 
the carbon and hydrogen present, the 
oxygen being in feeble combination with 
nitrogen. Many explosives are, how- 
e Xf. r ' me chanical mixtures of compounds 
which, are themselves explosive, e. g„ 
cordite, which is mainly composed of 
gun cotton and nitro-glycerine. 



The most common and familiar *f 
explosives is undoubtedly gunpowder 
The mixture first adopted appear £ 
have consisted of equal parts of %k 
three ingredients— sulphur, charcoal S 
niter; but some time later the pronn^ 
tions, even now taken for all ordinal 
purposes, were introduced, namely; y 

Potassium nitrate. ... 75 parts 
Charcoal 15 tg 

Sul P Lur 10 parts 

100 parts 

Since gunpowder is a mechanical miv 
ture, it is clear that the first aim of the 
maker must be to obtain perfect incor- 
poration, and, necessarily, in order to 
obtain this, the materials must be in a 
very finely divided state. Moreove? 
in order that uniformity of effect may De 
obtained, purity of the original sub- 
stances, the percentage of moisture pres- 
ent, and the density of the finished 
powder are of importance. 

The weighed quantities of the ingre- 
dients are first mixed in gun metal or 
copper drums, having blades in the 
interior capable of working in the op- 
posite direction to that in which the 
drum itself is traveling. After passing 
through _ a sieve, the mixture (green 
charge) is passed on to the incorporating 
mills, where it is thoroughly ground un- 
der heavy metal rollers, a small quan- 
tity of water being added to prevent 
dust and facilitating incorporation, and 
during this process the risk of explosion 
is greater possibly than at any other 
stage in the manufacture. There are 
usually 6 mills working in the same 
building, with partitions between. Over 
the bed of each mill is a horizontal board, 
the "flash board," which is connected 
with a tank of water overhead, the ar- 
rangement being such that the upsetting 
of one tank discharges the contents of 
the other tanks onto the corresponding 
mill beds below, so that in the event oi 
an accident the charge is drowned in 
each case. The "mill cake" if 
broken down between rollers, the "meat 
produced being placed in strong oaK 
boxes and subjected to hydraulic pres- 
sure, thus increasing its density aria 
hardness, at the same time bringing tn« 
ingredients into more intimate contact. 
After once more breaking down tM 
material (press cake), the powder only 
requires special treatment to adapt 
for the various purposes for which it 
intended. . f 

The products of the combustion oi 
powder and its manner of burning * 



EXPLOSIVES 



329 



sure, a 
ure of 



. we iv influenced by tiie wrtit 
larger / well illustrated by the fail__ . 
proper^ ]at i nu m wire to ignite a masa 

* 11-der in a vacuum, only a few 
<)f ^° actually in contact with the plati- 
S ram f,naereoing combustion. 
""Str^lyeernie is a substance of a 

* i r chemical nature to gun cotton, 
K principles of its formation and puri- 
f +?nn being very similar, only in this 
ficat The materials and product are 
ffauW thereby rendering the operations 

* manufacture and washing much less 
Sifficult- The glycerine is sprayed into 
Se acid mixture by compressed-air m- 
Srfors, care being taken that the tem- 
perature during nitration does not rise 
above 86° F. The nitro-glycerine formed 
readily separates from the mixed acids, 
an d being insoluble in cold water, the 
hashing is comparatively simple. 

Ni tr0 _o-l v cerine is an oily liquid readily 
soluble hi most organic solvents, but 
becomes solid at 3° or 4° above the 
freezing point of water, and m this con- 
dition is less sensitive. It detonates 
when heated to 500° F„ or by a sudden 
How, yielding carbon dioxide, oxygen, 
litrogen, and water. Being a fluid un- 
der ordinary conditions, its uses as an 
explosive were limited, and Alfred Nobel 
uonceived the idea of mixing it with other 
[substances which would act as absorb- 
ents, first using charcoal and afterwards 
an infusorial earth, "kieselgubr," and 
obtaining what he termed "dynamite." 
Kobel found that "collodion cotton" — 
soluble gun cotton — could be converted 
by treatment with nitro-glycerine into a 
jellylike mass which was more trust- 
worthy in action than the components 
ilone, and from its nature the substance 
was christened "blasting gelatin." 

Nobel took out a patent for a smoke- 
less powder for use in guns, in which 
these ingredients were adopted with or 
Without the use of retarding agents. 
Ine powders of this class are ballistite 
and filite, the former being in sheets, the 
latter in threads. Originally camphor 
TVas introduced, but its use has been 
abandcme.^ a small quantity of aniline 
taking its place. 

ear Frederick Abel and Prof. Dewar 
Patented in 1S89 the use of trinitro 
cellulose and nitro- glycerine, 



added. 



for al- 
orm of 



St 0 " 8 \ as is wel1 known, this f 
uitro-cellulose is not soluble in nitro-glyc- 
" lne , yet by dissolving the bodies in a 
ca ik solven t, perfect incorporation 
an be attained. Acetone is the solvent 
i» ii athe P re paration of "cordite," and 
» „ a if ^munition except blank charges 
certain proportion of vaseline is also 



The combustion of the Dowdo 

ironi sohd or liqmd substances that 
excessive friction of the projectile in the 
gun causes rapid wearing the rimn? 
and it is chiefly to overcome this thatTg 
vaseline is introduced, for on explosion f 
thin him of solid matter is deposited « 
tne gun, and acts as a lubricant, 

I he proportion of the ingredients are: 

Nitroglycerine 58 parts 

Gun-cotton. 37 paitg 

Vaseline 5 parts 

Gun cotton to be used for cordite is 
prepared as previously described, but 
the alkali is omitted, and the mass i3 not 
submitted to great pressure, to avoid 
making it so dense that ready absorption 
of nitro-glycerine would not take place. 
The nitro-glycerine is poured over th< 
dried gun cotton and first well mixed by 
hand, afterwards in a kneading machine 
with the requisite quantity of acetone 
for 3£ hours. A water jacket is provided, 
since, on mixing, the temperature rises. 
The vaseline is now added, and the 
kneading continued for a similar period. 
The cordite paste is first subjected to 
a preliminary pressing, and is finally 
forced through a hole of the proper size* 
in a plate either by hand or by hydraulic 
pressure. The smaller sizes are wound 
on drums, while the larger cordite is cut 
off in suitable lengths, the drums and 
cut material being dried at 100° F., thus 
driving off the remainder of the acetone. 

Cordite varies from yellow m to dark 
brown in color, according to its thick- 
ness. When ignited it burns with a 
strong flame, which may be extinguished 
by a vigorous puff of air. Macnab and 
Sstori give the yield of permanent gases 
from Eng£h cordite as 647 cubic centi- 

quietly. . or dinarily 

made up ot 75 per j- d me con _ 

S5 per cent infusorial earm, gQ ^ 

tains 80 P^^^f^SLck has 40 per 
cent nitrocellulose, ^ t mt rate 

cent nitro.-glycerme 40 per^^ ? 

53!T?f 8 per cent 

rosin or charcoal. of 



base of 
ellulose. 



EXPLOSIVES 



which has been treated in one of various 
ways to make it burn slower than gun 
cotton, and also to render it less sensitive 
to heat and shocks. As a rule, these 
powders are not only less inflammable 
than gun cotton, but require stronger 
detonators. As metallic _ salts cause 
smoke, they are not used in these pow- 
ders. The smokeless powders now in 
use may be divided into three groups: 
(1) Those consisting of mixtures of 
nitro-glycerine and nitrated cellulose, 
which have been converted into a hard, 
hornlike mass, either with or without 
the aid of a solvent. To this group be- 
longs ballistite, containing 50 per cent of 
nitro-glycerine, 49 per cent of nitrated 
cellulose, and 1 per cent of diphenyi- 
amin; also cordite (see further on), 
Lenord's powder, and amberite. This 
last contains 40 parts of nitro-glycerine 
and 56 parts of nitrated cellulose. (2) 
Those consisting mainly of nitrated cel- 
lulose of any kind, which has been ren- 
dered hard and horny by treatment with 
some solvent which is afterwards evapo- 
rated. These are prepared by treating 
nitrated cellulose with ether or benzine, 
which dissolves the collodion, and when 
evaporated leaves a hard film of collo- 
dion on the surface of each grain. 
Sometimes a little camphor is added to 
the solvent, and, remaining in the pow- 
der, greatly retards its combustion. (3) 
Those consisting of nitro-derivatives of 
the aromatic hydrocarbons, either with 
or without the admixture of nitrated 
cellulose; to this group belong Dupont's 
powder, consisting of nitrated cellulose 
dissolved in nitro-benzine; indurite, con- 
sisting of cellulose hexanitrate (freed 
from collodion by extraction with methyl 
alcohol), made into a paste with nitro- 
benzine, and hardened by treatment with 
steam until the excess of nitro-benzine is 
removed; and plastomeite, consisting of 
dinitrotoluene and nitrated wood pulp. 

Cordite is the .specific name of a 
smokeless powder which has been 
adopted by the English government as a 
military explosive. It contains nitro- 
glycerine, 58 parts; gun cotton, 37 parts; 
and petrolatum, 5 parts. The nitro- 
glycerine and gun cotton are first mixed, 
19.2 parts of acetone added, and the 
pasty mass kneaded for several hours. 
Ihe petrolatum is then added and the 
mixture again kneaded. The paste is 
then forced through fine openings to 
tot ™ threads, which are dried at about 

"Pi? i! Unt ^ t ' ie aceton3 evaporates. 
Ihe threads, which resemble brown 
twine, are then cut into short lengths for 
use. 



Another process for the Tr>n„ * 
of smokeless powder h nT^T^ 
fcraw, preferably, oat-straw, is treated 
the usua way with a mixture of 
acid and concentrated sulohurin D • ? 
and then washed in water to wit 
these, then boiled with wate ^S 
with a solution of potassium carbo^* 
It is next subjected, for 2 tn ft k bouate - 
the action of a solution ™ ° Urs ' to 
1,000 parts of wat« ™M * 
sium nitrate, 3.5 parts of n + P °- tas " 
chlorate, 12.5 parts of Se Slufi^ 
12 5 parts of potassium p 
The excess of solution is pressfd 
and the mass is then pulverized, granu- 
lated, and finally dried. 

The warning as to the danger of 
penmenting with the manufacture of 
ordinary gunpowder applies with re 
newed force when nitro-glycerine is the 
subject of the experiment. 

Berge's Blasting Powder. —This i s 
composed of chlorate of potash, 1 part* 
chromate of potash, 0.1 part; sugar' 
0.45 parts; yellow wax, 0.09 parts. The" 
proportions indicated may vary within 
certain limits, according to the force 
desired. For the preparation, the chlo- 
rate and the chromate of potash, as well 
as the sugar, arc ground separately and 
very finely, and sifted so that the grains 
of the different substances may have Ihe 
same size. At first any two of the sub- 
stances are mixed as thoroughly as possi- 
ble, then the third is added. The yellow 
wax, cut in small pieces, is finally added, 
and all the substances are worked to- 
gether to produce a homogeneous prod- 
uct. The sugar may be replaced with 
charcoal or any other combustible body. 
For commercial needs, the compound 
may be colored with any inert matter, 
also pulverized. 

Safety in Explosives. — Ammoniacal 
salts have been used in the manufacture 
of explosives to render them proof 
against firedamp, but not with the full 
success desired. Ammonium chloride 
has been utilized, but inconveniences 
are met with, and the vapor is quite dis- 
agreeable. In cooperation with equiva- 
lent quantities of soda and potash, its 
action is regarded as favorable. Tes ts 
employing benzine vapor and coal th' 
were made, and the comparative security 
calculated to be as given below. 

I.— Donarite, composed as follows. 
80 per cent of nitrate of ammonia, 12 or 
trinitrotoluol, 4 of flour, 3.S of nitro- 
glycerine, and 0.2 per cent of cotton col- 
lodion. Security: Donarite alone. »' 
parts; 95 per cent of donarite and P er 



EXPLOSIVES 



33 



n f ammonium chloride, 125 pails; 
<" en npn t of donarite aud 10 per cent 
9 ? Senium chloride 250 parts; 86 
cent of donarite and 5.5 per cent of 



er C n,,inm chloride, with 8.5 per cent of 
S o ^da, 425 parts Tlie force of 
/ explosion is decreased about 8 per 
t while the security is quintupled. 
U _-.Roburite, with the following com- 
I'm' r '^- 5 P cr cent mtrate . °^ am ~ 



posu 

"T'lr 5*suTphate of ammonia; 0.5 per 
Ut permanganate of potash. Security: 
S|rite .only, 325 parts; — 



12 binitro-benzol; 10. nitrate of 



Roburue j> " — i % i i , e 

chloride, taking the place of sulphate of 
ammonia, 400 parts. < Here an intensi- 
fication of the explosive force is simul- 
taneously produced 

HI,— Amman carbonitc 1, composed 
thus: 4 per cent nitro-glycerine; 75.5 
nitrate of ammonia; 9.5 nitrate of potash; 
9 5 coal dust; 10.5 flour. Security: Am- 
nion carbonite I only, 250 parts; 95 per 
cent A. C I. and 5 per cent ammonium 
chloride, 400 parts; 92 per cent A. C. I. 
and 8 per cent ammonium chloride, 500 
parts. The addition of 5 per cent am- 
monium chloride diminishes the ex- 
plosive force only 3 per cent. 

IV. — An explosive of nitro-glycerine 
base composed thus: 30 pt=r cent nitro- 
glycerine; 1 per cent cotton collodion; 
52. C nitrate of ammonia; 13 nitrate of 
potash; 3 to 4 per cent starch. Security 
of this mixture, 150 parts. 

V. — Thirty per cent nitro-glycerine; 1 
per cent cotton collodion; 47.3 nitrate of 
ammonia; 11.6 nitrate of potash; 3.1 
starch; 7 per cent ammonium chloride. 
This mixture has a security of 350 parts. 

Inflammable Explosive with Chlorate 
of Potash.— Take as an agent promot- 
ing enmbustion, potassium chlorate; as a 
combustible agent, an oxidized, nitrated, 
or natural rosin. If, to such a mixture, 
another body is added in order to render 
^ soft and plastic, such as oil, nitro-ben- 
zine, glucose, glycerine, the benefit of the 
discovery is lost, for the mixture is ren- 
dered combustible with nitro-benzinc, 
W a > sulphur, etc., and inexplosive 
nf gl ? eenue ' glucose, and the oil. 
yt all the chlorates and perchlorat.es, 
tW S1Um borate (KClOa) responds 
jAe best to what is desired. As to the 
°? lns . they may be varied, or even 
mixed. To obtain the oxidation or 

S ° n - of the rosms > the y are seated 

ed m l r,C acid ' more or less concentrat- 
sui i witn or without the addition of 
anJ •? acid - An oxidation, sufficient 
°. without danger, can be secured by 
51ai ple and practical means. This is 



boiling them for several hours „ 
containing ; nitric acid, which ™ renewe 
from time to tune in correspondence w?t 
its decomposition. The 



the ter 



mended by M. Tnrpin ar? T 
m> - ! ' <)l! i>. ing for ave 

mhony is the typ 



Sola C ll 0U O P ' I™ * W*o 

mma L-aoHsoOi. Colophonv i« ih» +™ 



I j pT ?^ c % t]bu " s titrated, 
washed with boding water, and, on < 
casion, by a solution slightly alkaline, 
with a final washing with pure water 
and dried at a temperature of 230° F or 
in the open air. 

The mixing of the constituents of this 
explosive is preferably cold. For this 
purpose they are used in the state of fine 
powder, and when mixed in the tub, 2^ 
to 5 per cent of a volatile dissolvent is 
added, as alcohol, carbon sulphide, 
ether, or benzine. As soon as thorough- 
ly mingled, the mass is put either in an 
ordinary grainer, or in a cylinder of wire 
cloth revolving horizontally on its axis, 
with glass gobilles forming a screen, by 
the aid of which the graining is rapidly 
accomplished. Thus a powder more or 
less finely granulated is produced free 
from dust. 

The proportions preferably employed 
are: 

1. Potassium chlorate. . . 85 parts 
Natural rosin 15 parts 

2. Potassium chlorate. . . 80 parts 
Nitrated rosin 20 parts 

For employment in firedamp mines, 
there is added to these compounds from 
20 to 40 per cent of one of the following 
substances: Ammonium oxalate, am- 
monium carbonate, oxalic acid, sodium 
bicarbonate, calcium fluoride, or other 
substance of the nature }o lower jufr 
ciently the temperature of the explosive 
flame. 

purified, is .^rt ?S % has been 
careful chemical examination^ ^ 

made 



a 

on o 



to ascertain us free dom 
d other impurities tJie con 



grease, and oj * ^ d to r emove 
waste is pmked over oy car dboard, 
such impurities « then passed 



The 



string, etc &"-£ng machine," winch 
through the Rasing thereby 
opens out all l»ot«^nd £ itabIe fo r 
reducing to a st ^ » ^ tQ ^ 
the acid treatment an ^ h 
nnj foreign substani picking, 
escaped notice n th > £ Wfaen per . 
The cotton is tneu 



8S8 



EXPLOSIVES 



fectly dry, it is removed to air-tight iron 
cases, in which it is allowed to cool. The 
iron cases are taken to the dipping 
houses, and the cotton waste weighed 
into small portions, which are then 
transferred as rapidly as possible to the 
mixed acids, allowed to remain a few 
minutes, then removed to the grating 
and the excess of acid squeezed out. 
The cotton now containing about ten 
times its weight of acid is placed in an 
earthenware pot and transferred to the 
steeping pits, where it is allowed to re- 
main for 24 hours, a low temperature 
being maintained by a stream of cold 
water. 

The cotton is now wholly converted 
into nitro-cellulose. The superfluous 
acid is next removed by a centrifugal 
extractor, after which the gun cotton is 
taken out of the machine and immedi- 
ately immersed in a large volume of 
water, and thoroughly washed until it 
shows no acid reaction. The moisture 
is then run out and the gun cotton is con- 
veyed by tramway to the boiling vats, 
where it undergoes several boilings by 
means of steam. When the "heat teat" 
shows that a sufficient degree of stability 
has been obtained, the gun cotton is re- 
moved to a beating engine, and reduced 
to a very fine state of division. When 
this process is completed the pulp is run 
by gravity along wooden shoots, pro- 
vided with "grit traps" and electro- 
magnets, which catch any traces of sand, 
iron, etc., into large "poachers," in 
which the gun cotton is continuously 
agitated, together with a large quantity 
of water. In this way it is thoroughly 
washed and a blend made of a large 
quantity of gun cotton. 

Soluble Gun Cotton. — Soluble gun 
cotton is made on the same lines, except 
that greater attention has to be paid to 
the physical condition of the cotton used, 
and to the temperature and strength of 
acid mixture, etc. 

The term "soluble" usually implies 
that the gun cotton is dissolved by a mix- 
ture of ethyl- ether and ethyl- alcohol, 2 
parts of the former to I of the latter being 
the proportions which yield the best 
solvent action. The classification of 
nitro-celluloses according to their solu- 
bility in ether-alcohol is misleading, 
-except when the nitrogen contents are 
also quoted. 

The number of solvents for gun cotton 
which have at various times been pro- 
posed is very large. Among the more 
important may be mentioned the follow- 
ing: Alcohols (used chiefly in conjunc- 



tion with other solvents), methyl ethvl 
propyl, and amy], methyUamyl ether 
acetic ether, di-ethy]-ketone, methyl* 
ethyl ketone, amyl nitrate and acetate 
nitro-benzole, nitro-toluol, nitrated oils, gla" 
cial acetic acid, camphor dissolved in 
alcohol, etc. 

Some of the above may be called 
selective solvents, i. e., they dissolve one 
particular variety of gun cotton better 
than others, so that solubility in any 
given solvent must not be used to indi- 
cate solubility in another. No nitro- 
cotton is entirely soluble in any solvent 
The solution,_ after standing some time* 
always deposits a small amount of insol- 
uble matter. _ Therefore, in making 
collodion solutions, care should be taken 
to place the containing bottles in a place 
free from vibration and shock. After 
standing a few weeks the clear super- 
natant liquid may be decanted off. On 
a larger scale collodion solutions are 
filtered under pressure through layers of 
tightly packed cotton wool. The state 
of division is important. When the end 
in view is the production of a strong film 
or thread, it is advisable to use unpi-lped 
or only slightly pulped nitro-cellulose. 
In this condition it also dissolves more 
easily than the finely pulped material. 

FULMINATES: 

Fulminating Antimony. — Tartar 

emetic (dried), 100 parts; lampblack or 
ciiarcoal powder, 3 parts. Triturate 
together, put into a crucible that it will 
three-fourths fill (previously rubbed inside 
with charcoal powder). Cover it with a 
layer of dry charcoal powder, and lute 
on the cover. After 3 hours' exposure to 
a strong heat in a reverberatory furnace, 
and 6 or 7 hours' cooling, cautiously 
transfer the solid contents of the crucible, 
as quickly as possible, without breaking, 
to a wide-mouthed stoppered W 
where, after some time, it will s P?" ta " 
neously crumble to a powder. WJl *. n 
the above process is properly conducted, 
the resulting powder contains potassium, 
and fulminates violently on contact WW 
water. A piece the size of a pea intro 
duced into a mass of gunpowder ex- 
plodes it on being thrown into water, 
or on its being moistened in any o 
manner. 

Fulminating Bismuth.— Take bis- 
muth, 120 parts;, carbureted cream 
tartar, 60 parts; niter, 1 part. 

Fulminating Copper. — Digest , copper 
(in powder of filings) with fu \™> n ^ iet . 
mercury or of silver, and a inue 




EXPLOSIVES— FATS 



, * rms soluble green crystals that ex- 
§X with a green flame. ^ 

Fol^^frtsf nSSic' acid (specie 
cUl7 h , 1 4} 1,000 parts (or 740 parts, by 



^ raV1 Dissolve by a gentle heat, 

^jhJn the solution has acquired the 
a " ™»,irB of 130° F., slowly pour It 
tefflP«f lll (rl funac | tube into alcohol 
5^2nC gravity, .830), 830 parts (or 
\%0 parts, by measure) As soon as 
7 ffprvescence is over, and white fumes 
the fto be evolved, filter through double 
CC n% wash with cold water, and dry by 
Sm M hotter than 212° F.) or hot 
iSer The fulminate is then to be 
nacke'd in 100-grain paper parcels, and 
fhese stored in a tight box or corked 
bottle Product 130 per cent of the 
weight of mercury employed. 

Fulminating Powder. — I. Niter, 3 
car ts' carbonate of potash (dry), 2 
carts ; flowers of sulphur, 1 part; reduce 
them separately to fine powder, beiore 
mixing them. A little of this compound 
(20 to 30 grains), slowly heated on a 
shovel over the fire, first fuses and be- 
comes brown, and then explodes with a 
deafening report. 

II. — Sulphur, 1 part; chlorate of 
potassa, 3 parts. When triturated, with 
strong pressure, in a marble or wedg- 
wood-ware mortar, it produces a series of 
loud reports. It also fulminates by per- 
cussion. 

III. — Chlorate of potassa, 6 parts; 
pure lampblack, 4 parts; sulphur, 1 part. 
A little placed on an anvil detonates with 
a loud report when struck with a ham- 
mer. 

EXPOSURES IN PHOTOGRAPHING : 

See Photography. 

EXTRACTS: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

EXTRACTS, TESTS FOR: 

See Poods. 

EYE LOTIONS: 

"Black Eye" Lotion.— "Black eyes" 
°r other temporary discolorations of the 
skin may be disguised by the application 
°f pink grease paint, or collodion colored 
oy means of a little carmine. As lotions 
lle following have been recommended: 

'^'~~Ammonium chlo- 
ride 1 part 

Alcohol 1 part 

Water 10 parts 

Diluted acetic acid may be substituted 
IQ t half of the water, and the alcohol 



wfti Xl e ntge ed * ° f 

II— Potassium nitrate. . . 15 g rai)! 
Ammonium chloride 30 grains 
Aromatic vinegar... 4 drachms 
Water to make 8 ounces. 

™JJ L ~ T r e J°! loiivin g is to be applied 

hours. Be careful not to get it in the 
eyes, as it smarts. It will remove the 
black discoloration overnight*. 

Oxalic acid 15 grains 

Distilled water 1 o.unce 

Foreign Matter in the Eye.— If a piece 
of iron or other foreign matter in the eye 
irritates it, and there is no way of remov- 
ing it until morning, take a raw Irish 
potato, grate it, and use as a poultice on 
the eye. It will ease the eye so one can 
sleep, and sometimes draws the piece 
out. 

Drops of Lime in the Eye. — If lime has 
dropped in the eye, the pouring-in of or 
the wiping-out with a few drops of oil is 
the best remedy, as the causticity of the 
lime is arrested thereby. Poppy-seed 
oil or olive oil is prescribed, but pure lin- 
seed oil ought to render the same service, 
as it is also used in the household. Sub- 
sequently, the eye may be rinsed out with 
syrup, as the saccharine substance will 
harden any remaining particles of lime 
and destroy all causticity entirely. 

FABRIC CLEANERS: . , , 

See Cleaning Preparations and JMetn- 
ods and also Household Formulas. 
FABRICS, WATERPROOFING OF: 

See Waterproofing. 
FACE BLACK AND FACE POWD 
See Cosmetics. 

Fats 

„ . r. „>, bears' fat is white 
Bear Fat. —Fresh bear ance . 
and very similar tol* «1 J VP 
The flank fat is softer ami 
parent than the f kidney ^fa fat 
recalls that of f rjjh ^ con g f and 
differs from the fata of ^ifie^gravity, a 

iodine value. ^ ^ which 

Bleaching Bone if at. h bone3 , 
is principalfy ^Z in the crude state, 
s ^ery dark colored , n ™ eeab l e smf. 
and of an extreme ly d sagr ^ > 
To remedy these .a e icals> the 

a;si-iii.f:."<i«<"'"™ 1 " 



884 



FATS 



when the fat has been recovered by 
means of steam. It consists In cutting 
up the fat into small fragments and ex- 
posing it to the air for several days, the 
mass being turned over at intervals with 
a shovel. When sufficiently bleached in 
this manner, the fat is boiled with half 
its own weight of water, which done, 
about 3 or 4 per cent of salt is added, 
and the whole is boiled over again. This 
treatment, which takes 2 or 3 weeks, 
sweetens the fat, makes it of the consist- 
ency of butter, and reduces the color to a 
pale yellow. Light seems to play no 
part in the operation, the change being 
effected solely by the oxygen of the air. 
The chemical treatment has the advan- 
tage of being more rapid, sufficient de- 
coloration being produced in a few 
hours. The fat, which should be free 
from gelatin, phosphate of lime, and 
water, is placed in an iron pan along 
with an equal weight of brine of 14° to 
15° Be. strength, with which it is boiled 
for 3 hours and left to rest overnight. 
Next day the fat is drawn off into a 
wooden vessel, where it is treated by 
degrees with a mixture of 2 parts of 
potassium bichromate, dissolved in 6 of 
boiling water, and 8 parts of hydro- 
chloric acid (density 22° Be.), this quan- 
tity being sufficient for 400 parts of fat. 
Decoloration proceeds gradually, and 
when complete the fat is washed with hot 
water. 

Bleaching Tallows and Fats.— In- 
stead of exposing to the sun, which is 
always attended with danger of render- 
ing fats rancid, it is better to liquefy these 
at a gentle heat, and then add i in weight 
of a mixture of equal parts of kaoli n ana 
water. The fatty matter should be 
Worked up for a time and then left to 
separate. Kaolin has the advantage of 
cheapness in price and of being readily 
procured. J 

Freshly turned animal charcoal would 
perhaps be a more satisfactory decolor- 
ize than kaolin, but it is more expen- 
sive to start with, and not so easy to re- 
generate. 1 

Exposure of tallow to the action of 
steam under high pressure (a tempera- 
ture of 250° or 260- F.) is also said to 
render jt whiter and harder. 

n^ l0 T? g ^ atter in Fats. -A simple 
method for the detection of the addition 

?Lk matter to fata is he re de- 

Sf™-, * en Parts, by measure, of the 

En«!? jj r . e into a smaI1 separating 
funnel a nd dissolved in 10 parts, bymeus- 
° f P e \ ro ] eu p3 ether. The solution 
then treated with 15 parts, by measure, 



of glacial acetic acid and ft,* , 
shaken thoroughly. Th~ n ^- 1 - WJlol e 
coloring ^atter^s^nown by the r ?, ° f 
yellow coloration which amL ?ed op 
fower layer of acetic 2/ & «>. 
tents of the funnel have been nil c , on - 
settle. If only >a slight addfe 
coloring matter is suspected the - + ° 
acid solution is run otf into a Dor? 1^° 
basin and the latter heated L ? l elain 
bath, when the colonSS wiU V^ T 
more readily. This test is intended for 
butter and margarine, but is also Sabl* 
for tallow, lard, etc. °«"i-apie 

Fatty Acid Fermentation Process 
The production of fatty acids from fate 
and oils by fermentation is growing in 
importance. These particulars, which 
are the actual results from recent exneri 
ments on a somewhat extended scale are 
given: Seven hundred and fifty pounds of 
cottonseed oil are mixed with 45 gallons 
of water and 3A pounds of acetic acid' 

*b j?*S U1 V S heated t0 a temperature 
ot 85 h. Castor-oil seeds, 53 pounds 
decorticated and ground, are mixed 
thoroughly with 3 gallons of water and 
4* gallons of the oil, and this mixture is 
stirred into the oil and water; the whole 
masses then kept mixed for 12 hours by 
blowing air through, after which it is 
allowed to stand for another 12 hours, 
being given a gentle stir by hand at the 
end of every hour. After 24 hours the 
mass is heated to a temperature of 180° 
F., which stops the fermentation and 
at the same time allows the fatty acids to 
separate more freely. To assist in this 
effect there is added 1 gallon of sulphuric 
acid (1 in 3) solution. 

After 2 hours' standing, the mass will 
have separated into three layers— fatty 
acids on the top, glycerine water below, 
and a middle, undefined layer. The 
glycerine water is run away, and the 
whole mass left to stand for 2 hours. 
The middle portion is run off from the 
separated fatty acids into another vessel, 
where it is mixed with 10 gallons of hot 
water, thoroughly stirred, and allowed to 
stand for 16 hours or more. The watery 
layer at the bottom, which contains some 
glycerine, is then run off, while the resi- 
due is mixed with a further quantity ot 
10 gallons of water, and again allowed to 
stand. The water which separates out, 
also the layer of fatty acids that forms on 
the top, are run off and mixed with the 
portions previously obtained. The va- 
rious glycerine waters are treated to re- 
cover the glycerine, while the fatty acios 
are made marketable in any convenient 
way. 



FATS— FEATHER BLEACHING 



335 



reservation of. Fats--To produce 
*^ A oils containing both iodine and 
fats ana hereby they are preserved 
gU l p hur, rancidj an d consequently ean 
fTCin t%7ed to more advantage for the 
bC l iurposea. such as the manufacture 
usU al puii- ^ dk etc>? fallowing is the 

? f SS method: 

L The essential feature of the process is 
, ML iodine is not merely held in solu- 
te lv the oil or fat, but enters into 
H :/»! combination with the same; the 
C SufaC combines chemically with 
ffor fat, and from their reactions 
Ht preserving properties are derived 

Tfie process consists of heating for 
example, 6 parts of oil with 1 part of sul- 
3mr to a temperature varying between 
?00° and 400° F., then, when at about 
ins* F a solution of iodine and oil is 
added to the mixture, which is constantly 
agitated until cool to prevent lumps 
forming- A product is thus obtained 
which acquires the consistency ot butter, 
and contains both iodine and sulphur m 
combination. 

Purifying Oils and Fats.— In purifying 
fatty oils and fats for edible purposes the 
chief thing is to remove the free fatty 
acids, which is done by the aid of solu- 
tions of alkalies and alkaline earths. 
The subsequent precipitation of < the 
resulting soapy emulsions, especially 
when lime is used, entails prolonged 
heating to temperatures sometimes as 
high as the boiling point of water. 
Furthermore, the amount, of alkalies 
taken is always greater than is chemically 
necessary, the consequence being that 
some of the organic substances present 
are attacked, and malodorous products 
are formed, a condition necessitating the 
employment of animal charcoal, etc., 
as deodorizer. 

To prevent the formation of these un- 
toward products, which must injuriously 
affect the quality of edible oils, C. Fre- 
senius proposes to accelerate the disper- 




. — " M 'U aUU 14. * ' ' 1 ' '"''J--" — 

■einperature of about 220° F., for a short 
tl me, the formation of decomposition 
Products, and any injurious influence on 
«ie taste and smell of the substance being 
Prevented by the addition of fresh char- 
<-°aJ. etc., beforehand. Charcoal may, 
must in certain cases, be replaced 
fn 3 P ur Pose by infusorial earth or 
S J 3 earth - When this process is a P" 
]W to cottonseed oil, 100 parts of the 
JJ are mixed with part of fresh, pure 
^■aarcoal, and \ part of pure fuller's earth. 



FATS, DECOMPOSITION OF- 

See Oil. 



AND COL- 



FEATHER BLEACHING 
ORING : 

See also Dyes. 

Bleaching and Coloring Feathers.— 
Feathers, in their natural state, are not 
adapted to undergo the processes of dye- 
ing and bleaching; they must be prepared 
by removing their oil and dirt. This is 
usually done by washing them in moder- 
ately warm soap and water, and rinsing 
in warm and cold water; or the oil may 
be chemically removed by the use of ben- 
zine. To remove it entirely, the feathers 
must be left in the cleansing fluid from 
a half hour to an hour, when they may be 
subjected to the process of bleaching. 

Bleaching Plumes. — Plumes may he 
almost entirely bleached by the use of 
hydrogen peroxide, without injuring 
their texture. 

In specially constructed glass troughs, 
made the length of an average ostrich 
feather, 15 or 20 of these feathers can be 
treated at a time. The bleaching fluid 
is made from a 30 per cent solution of 
hydrogen ■ peroxide, with enough am- 
monia added to make it neutral; m other 
words when neutral, blue litmus paper 
will no7turn red, and red will take a . pale 



desired, xnc - i ce pYom 

glass plate ^g^Sied and 
time to time the toatners^^ ne roxide. 



time to time ui<= 1 u^nren peroxide, 
turned, adding ^^un and 
This process require ,10 1 to « £ After 
if sarj J should i be repeate 
bleaching they are r and 
water or rain water driecl i 

kept in motion ^ e -^"lring feathers 
To insure success in cowr g ^ 
in delicate>ts they mu^b. te 

all impurities «d ru b the quiD 

been found of adv a f™ S wh ;ie still moist 

able dyea for tins m 



386 



FEATHER COLORING— FERTILIZERS 



, C; crystal vesuvin, 4 B C; phosphm 
*tra lather yellow, OH; leather red, 
a B- leather brown, O; morocco red, 
\ azophocphine, G O.BRO; fuchsme, 
nse G R; grenadine, O; safranme, O; 
ethylene violet, malachite green, crys- 
' brilliant green, methylene green, 
ethylene gray, coal black 11. 
II —A boiling hot sulphuric solution. 
Dyes, acid fuchsine, orseilline, H B; acid 
cerise, O; acid maroon, Q; opal blue, 
blue de lyon, R B; cotton blue, No. 2, 
China blue No. 2, naphthalene green, O; 
patent blue, V A; fast blue, O R; fast 
blue black, O; deep black, G; azo yellow, 
victorine yellow, orange No. 2, fast 
brown O, ponceau GESE, fast red O, 
Bordeaux, GBR. 

III. — An acetic solution. Dyes, 
Bengal pink G B, phloxine G O, rosolan 
OBOF, rhodamine O 4 G, eosine A G, 
erythrosine. 

By appropriate mixtures of the dyes of 
any one class, plumes can be dyed every 
possible color. After dyeing they are 
rinsed, and dried in a rotating apparatus. 
The final process is that of curling, which 
ia done by turning them round and round 
over a gentle heat. For white feathers a 
little sulphur may be burned in the fire; 
for black or colored ones a little sugar. 
FELT HATS, TO STIFFEN: 

Borax 5 ounces 

Potassium carbonate 1% ounces 

Shellac 25 ounces 

Water 

i The borax and potassium carbonate 
should be dissolved in enough hot water 
to immerse the hat and when in solution 
the shellac should be added and the solu- 
tion boiled until the shellac is dissolved, 
then remove from the fire. This can be 
applied to the bat with either a sponge 
ti \? T hy imra ersion of the hat while 
cold, then removing the hat and dipping 
W a very dilute solution of sulphuric acid 
the a S- aCi ^ . T 5 iS iS done ^ neutralize 

swi mS 1 a l fix the shellac - Th e hat 
should then be shaped and allowed to dry 

FE st M 4 E ? T ^ TI0N ' PREVENTION OF: 

bee Anti-Ferments and Wines and Liquors 

"SSKoS^ DEVELOPER : 

Fertilizers 

(See also Phosphate, Artificial.) 

sit^oexce tt "iv e ?*~? lants are as s en- 
autrient s u bX„iL minU l e 1««*itie. of 

pota Sa ium,in ta the ea s 'oil UC a h s fi? ^ ° f 
sou, a S they are to 



minute quantities of n n {_ 
stances. Poisons arc said to°i£ U - 8 ^ 
ly more sensitive reagenta for \^ n '^ 
ence of certain metallic salt* P re ^ 
most delicate chemical the t the 
having been made that a trappTrf meQ t 
which might be obtained b v di^ir p P er 
copper retort is fatal to the iv? 6 " 1 * 
yellow lupin, the castor-oil r>ul+ atld 
spirogyra. Coupin has found sV nd , 
silver, mercury, copper anrl i of 
especially fatal to plants. Witr? 
sulphate the limit of 4» 
placed at 1 m 700,000,000 n 3 
asserts that both phanerogams "SS 
cryptogams are poisoned by solutions 0 f 
salts of lead or copper diluted to thl 
extent of 1 in 10,000,000, or loss 

As a result of a series of experiments 
Schloesmg stated that the nitrificationnf 
ammonium salts is not for all plants a 
necessary preliminary to the absorption of 
nitrogen by the plant. While for some 
plants, as for example buckwheat the 
preferable form of the food material is 
that of a nitrate, others, for instance, 
tropeolum, thrive even better when the 
nitrogen is presented to them in an 
amrnoniacal form. 

Artificial Fertilizers for Pot Plants.— 

Experiments on vegetation have shown 
that a plant will thrive when the lacking 
substances are supplied in a suitable 
form, e. g., in the following combinations.* 

I. — Calcium nitrate, potassium _ ni- 
trate, potassium phosphate, magnesiurr 
phosphate, ferric phosphate (sodiurs 
chloride). 

II. — Calcium nitrate, ammonium ni- 
trate, potassium sulphate, magnesiun 
phosphate, iron chloride (or sulphate) 
(sodium silicate). 

It is well known that in nature nitrate* 
are formed wherever decomposition or 
organic nitrogenous substances takes 
place in the air, the ammonia formed oy 
the decomposition being oxidize d 
nitric acid. These conditions for ^ 
formation of nitrates are present 
nearly every cornfield, and they ; are : a«° 
the cause of the presence of nltr **j°les 
water that has its source near stav - 
etc. In Peruvian guano mtrog 
present partly in the form of P?J* ' hate 



nitrate, partly as ammonium P h °fPjjJJ 
and sulphate. As a nitrate it acts 
rapidly than in the form of 
but in the latter case the effect l * 0 
lasting. Phosphoric acid occurs Jnf, ^ 
combined with ammonia, P°, 'i 0l ver 
chiefly with lime, the last being \* ^ 
and more lasting in action 
others. 



FERTILIZERS 



i .,11 artificial fertilizers conform, 
^ o/less, to one of the following gen- 
^Tfnnnulas: 



ral form 11111 ** 
T Artificial Flower Fertilizer. 

I" l 2 



itrate. 



.0.40 



1-00 



1 . 60 40.0 parts 

0.S0 20.0 parts 

1.00 25.0 parts 

0 . 20 5.0 parts 

0,24 6.0 parts 

0.16 4.0 parts 

4.00 100.0 parts 



resolve 1 part in 1,000 parts water, 
FSSerthe flowers with it 2 or 3 times 
and Vh Dissolve 4 parts in 1,000 parts 
Ser and water with this quantity 10 or 
it pots of medium size. 
II.— Compost for Indoor Plants. — 



1 

Ammonium sulphate.... 0. 30 

godium chloride O.M 

potassium nitrate . u.io 

Magnesium sulphate. ; . ..U.lo 
Magnesium phosphate. . . 0 . 04 
Sodium phosphate. U . uu 



2 

1.20 
1.20 
0.60 
0.60 
0.20 
0.24 



30 . 0 parts 
30 . 0 parts 
15.0 parts 
IS . 0 parts 
4.0 parts 
6 . 0 parts 



1.00 4.00 100.0 parts 

One part to be dissolved in 1,000 parts 
water and the flowers watered up to 3 
times daily. Dissolve 4 parts m 1,000 
parts water, and water with this solution 
daily: 

III.— Plant Food Solution.— 

1 2 



12.5 parts 
58.0 part3 
12.0 parts 
15.0 parts 

2.5 parts 



Potassium chloride 0.16 or 

Calcium nitrate .0.71 or 

Magnesium sulphate 0.125 or 

Potassium phosphate 0.133 or 

Iron phosphate, recently 

precipitated 0.032 or 

1,160 or 100. 0 parts 

This turbid mixture (1 part in 1,000 
parts) is used alternately with water 
for watering a pot of about 1 quart capac- 
ity; for smaller or larger pots in pro- 
portion. After using the amount indi- 
cated, the watering is continued with 
Water alone. 

IV.— Fertilizer with Organic Matter, 
for Pot Blowers.— 

Potassium nitrate. . 100.0 parts 
Ammonium phos- 
phate 100.0 parts 

Phosphoric acid. . . 2-5 parts 

Simple syrup 1,000 parts 

Add. not more than 10 parts to 1,000 
Parts water, and water alternately with 
J ul s and with water alone. For cac- 
crassulaceae, and similar plants, 
jpeh do not assimilate organic matter 
directly, use distilled water instead of 
B Srup, 

-hlorotic plants are painted with a 



4 ounces 
4 ounces 

2 ounces 
1 ounce 



dilute iron solution or iron is added to th 
sod, which causes them to assume th^ 
natural green color. The iron is used i 
pha?e fern ° Chi ° ride « f -ous 

V *— Sodium phosphate 

Sodium nitrate 

Ammonium sul- 
phate 

Snear 

Use 2 tcaspoonfuls to a gallon of wate 

VI. — Ammonium phosphate 30 parts 

Sodium nitrate 25 par' 

Potassium nitrate 25 pa 

Ammonium sulphate . . 20 pari- 
"Water. 100,000 part 

One application of this a week 
enough for the slower growing plant3 t 
and 2 for the more rapid growing her- 
baceous ones. 

VII. — Calcium phos- 

phate 

Potassium nitrate 

Potassium phos- 
phate 

Magnesium sul- 
phate 

Iron (ferric) 

phosphate 100 grains 

VIII. — Pot plants, especially flowering 
plants kept around the house, should be 
treated to an occasional dose of the i ol- 
io wing: 

Ammonium chlo- 
ride Mparts 

Sodium phosphate 4 parts 
Sodium nitrate.... S parts 
Water 80 parts 

Mi* and dissolve. To use add 8| 
1V11X auu u>« „„+,»„ qnduseasm 

drops to the quart of water, ana us 
ordinary watering. 

1 part 

IX. —Sugar .... " % £ rta 

Potassium nitrate. 

Ammonium sul- 
phate 

■Ferric phosphate.- 
Magnesium sul- 
phate * ■ *" 

Potassium phos- 

PotSum nitrate 
Calcium acia 
phosphate. 



4 ounces 
1 ounce 

1 ounce 

1 ounce 



2 parts 
4 parts 

1 part 

2 parts 

g parts 
2 parts 

8 parts 



pnosp— _ of cither of these 

About a tl It* of r tC H' 

mixtures is ^"JtJlJd S ith the liquid. 

£3 the plants f^^th of flowej 
For hastening ^ e f is reC nmm<mded. 
the following fertiliser 



XI. — Potassium nitrate. 30 parts 
Potassium phos- 
phate. 25 parts 

Ammonium sul- 
phate 10 parts 

Ammonium nitrate 35 parts 

The following five arc especially recom- 
mended for indoor use: 

XII. — Sodium chloride. , 10 parts 
Potassium nitrate. 5 parts 
Magnesium sul- 
phate 5 part3 

Magnesia 1 part 

Sodium phosphate 2 parts 

Mixed and bottled. Dissolve a tea- 
spoonful daily in a quart of water and 
water the plants with the solution.. 

XIII. — Ammonium nitrate 40 parts 
Potassium nitrate. 90 parts 
Ammonium phos- 
phate 50 parts 

Two grams is sufficient for a medium- 
sized flower pot. 

.XIV. — Ammonium sul- 
phate 10 parts 

Sodium chloride. . 10 parts 

Potassium nitrate. 

Magnesium sul- 
phate 

Magnesium car- 
bonate 1 part 

Sodium phosphate 20 parts 
One teaspoonful to 1 quart of water. 

XV, — Ammonium nitrate 40 parts 
Ammonium phos - 

phate 20 parts 

Potassium nitrate. 0.25 parts 
Ammonium chlo- 
ride 5 parts 

Calcium sulphate. 6 parts 
Ferrous sulphate. , 4 parts 
Dissolve 2 parts in 1,000 of water, and 
ater the plants with the solution. 

XVI.— Potassium nitrate. 20 parts 
Potassium phos- 

i P hate : 25 parts 

Ammonium sul- 

i P hate : 10 parts 

Ammonium nitrate 35 parts 

fcSf P rod \ ces * luxuriant 

Within* « ™ S are desir ed, dispense 

WJtb the ammonium nitrate. 

sal* lo'^te sa]t pa ^ : t cooking 

nesia 1 K n J "^} lcr SDJt, 5 parts; mag- 
spoonful in 1* nin 1 of a tea ; 



5 parts 
5 parts 



XVIII. — Ammonium sulnl. 

parts; sodium chloride, 30 nart * S <> 

niter, 15 parts; magnesium aitlrj P ° tftsil 

parts; magnesium phosphate T te ' 15 

sodium phosphate, 6 Dartc r\- part s; 

1 part in 1,000 parts watei an,! 8 ? 1 ^ 

> 4uu apply g 



nitrate, 71 



times per day. 

XIX. — Calcium 
potassium chlorate, 15 nart«. ™ parts ; 
sulphate, 12.5 p arts ; f 0 
phate, 13.3 parts; fresff/^ nfe 
ferric phosphate, 3.2 parts a 1 1 ^- 

^TwX g a oeita!n « pott 



XX.— Ammonium phosphate snn 
parts; sodium nitrate, 250 parts- BO fef 
smm nitrate, 250 parts; anJ ammon£ 
^lphate, 200 parts, are mixed S £? 
To every 1,000 parts of water <&£ fve g 
parts of the mixture, and water the Do t 
ted plants once a week with this solution 

XXL— Potash niter, 20 parts; calcium 
carbonate, 20 parts; sodium chlorate 20 
parts; calcium phosphate, 20 parts- so* 
dium silicate, 14 parts; ferrous sulphate 
1.5 parts. Dissolve 1 part of the mix- 
ture m 1,000 parts water. 

_ Preparing Bone for Fertilizer.— Bone, 
in its various forms, is the only one of 
I the insoluble phosphates that" is now 
used directly upon the soil, or without 
other change than is accomplished by 
mechanical action or grinding. The 
terms used to indicate the character of 
the bone have reference rather to their 
mechanical form than to the relative 
availability of the phosphoric acid con- 
tained in them. The terms raw bone, 
fine bone, boiled and steamed bone, etc., 
are used to indicate methods of prep- 
aration, and inasmuch as bone is a 
material which is useful largely in pro- 
portion to its rate of decay, its fineness 
has an important bearing upon availabil- 
ity, since the finer the bone the more sur- 
face is exposed to the action of those 
forces which cause decav or solution, an 
the quicker will the constituents beco 
available. In the process of boiling or 
steaming, not only is the bone made baei 
but its physical character in 0 ,- r j r " 
spects is also changed, the P artieJ ^ f ; 
whether fine or coarse, being made so 
and crumbly rather than dense or flartj, 
hence it is more likely to act quicKlJ' . ' , 
if the same degree of fineness be oMfli'"£ 
by simple grinding. The P*°*$£ e 
acid in fine steamed bone may all toecoj ^ 
available in 1 or 2 years, while the co » 
fatty raw bone sometimes resist* 
decay for 3 or 4 years or even long 



FERTILIZERS — FILTERS 



389 



nntains considerable nitrogen, a 
B°° c f 3 ? v should be remembered in its 
faCt Particularly if used in comparison 
use ' ther phosnhatic materials which 
* ! f contain this element. Pure raw 
d ° "contains on an average 22 per cent 
Wiosphoric acid and 4 per cent of 
W P 1 ^:; By steaming or boiling, a por- 
111 g P thf organic substance containing 
^f^n is extracted, which has the effect 
X proportionately increasing the phos- 
loric acid in the product; hence a 
Wed bone may contain as high as 28 
went of phosphoric acid and as low as 
? ner cent of nitrogen. Steamed bone is 
Villv therefore, much richer m phos- 
phoric acid and has less nitrogen than 
the raw bone. 

Brewers' Yeast and Fertilizers. — A 
mixture is made of about 2 parts of 
yeast with 1 part of sodium chlonde and 
5 parts of calcium sulphate, by weight, 
for use as a manure. Pure or impure 
yeast, or veast previously treated for the 
extraction of a portion of its constituents, 
m av be used, and the gypsum may be 
replaced by other earthy substances of a 
similar non-corrosive nature. 

Authorities seem to agree that lime is 
necessary to the plant, and if it be 
wholly lacking in the soil, even though 
an abundance of all the other essential 
elements is present, it cannot develop 
normally. Many soils are well provided 
with lime by nature and it is seldom or 
never necessary for those who cultivate 
them to resort to liming. It wouM be 
just as irrational to apply lime where it is 
not needed as to omit it where it is re- 
quired, and hence arises the necessity of 
ascertaining the needs of particular soils 
in this respect. 

The method usually resorted to for 
ascertaining the amount of lime in soils 
is to treat them with some strong mineral 
acid, such as hydrochloric acid, and de- 
termine the amount of lime which is thus 
dissolved. The fact that beets of all 
tL nds make a ready response to limmg 
? n B °Js which, are deficient in lime may 
Se utilized as the basis of testing. 

SEVER IN CATTLE: 

bee Veterinary Formulas. 

*Kr SQUARES : 

be e Confectionery. 

Files 

Composition Files. —These files, which 
oth qUently used b ? watchmakers and 
ish£ r metal workers for grinding and pol- 
U1 «g, and the color of which resembles 



. To Keep Files Clean (see also Clear, 
mg Preparations and Methods). -Th e ^ 
even working of a file is usually due to the 
fact that filings clog the teeth' of the file 
lo obviate this evil, scratch brush th 
hies before use, and then grease the 
with olive oil. A hie prepared in thi 
manner lasts for a longer time, does no" 
become so quickly filled with filings an 
can be conveniently cleaned with an or 
dinary rough brush. 

Recutting Old Files.— Old files may b 
rendered useful again by the followin 

Erocess: Boil them in a potash bat 
rush them with a hard brush and wip 
off. Plunge for half a minute into nitri 
acid, and pass over a cloth stretche 
tightly on a flat piece of wood. Th 
effect will be that the acid remains in t" 
grooves, and will take away the stee 
without attacking the top, which has 
been wiped dry. The operation may be 
repeated according to the depth to be ob- 
tained. Before using the files thus treated 
they should be rinsed in water and dried. 

FILE METAL: 

See Alloys. 

FILLERS FOR LETTERS: 

See Lettering. 

FILLERS FOR WOOD: 

See Wood. 
FILTERS FOR WATER. 

A filter which possesses the advantages 

ma y be formed by placing 
sponge betw cen two pert"* w> and 
plates, ™^Jj*J™L as to permit 
arranged m sucn .* ^ presse d as re- 
of the sponge being c 0 ™^,, pres sure, 
Eared. Water ^^Zough . the 

^^^^^^ 

ofgallons of water dady^ thoroughly 
The sponges possible, and 

rolled together as much as p 
placed in the escape pipe oi ^ n 
& such a manner that the , a tfae 
of the sponge » »J ?5J n ffy itself, pro- 
smaller Voj^syre admg rd y he 
. trudes over tbe pip*- 



340 



FILTERS—] 



of the percolator, thus forming a flat 
liter Covering it. After a thorough moist- 
ening of the sponge it is said to admit of 
Tverv quick and clear filtration ot large 
quantities of tinctures, juices, etc 

For filtering water on a small scale, 
and for domestic use, "alcarrazas, 
diaphragms of porous earthenware and 
filtering-stone and layers of sand and 
charcoal etc., are commonly employed 
as filtering. . 

A cheap, useful form of portable filter 
is the following, given in the proceedings 
of the British Association: lake any 
common vessel, perforated below, such 
as a flower pot, fill the lower portion with 
coarse pebbles, over which place a layer 
of finer ones, and on these a layer of clean 
coarse sand. On the top of this a piece 
of burnt clay perforated with small holes 
should be put, and on this again a 
stratum of 3 or 4 inches thick of well- 
burnt, pounded animal charcoal. A 
filter thus formed will last a considerable 
time, and will be found particularly use- 
ful in removing noxious and putrescent 
substances held in solution by water." 

The "portable filters," in stoneware, 
that are commonly sold in the shops, 
contain a stratum of sand, or coarsely 
powdered charcoal; before, however, 
having access to this, the water has to 
pass through a sponge, to remove the 
coarser portion of the impurities. 

Alum Process of Water Purification. — 
Water may be filtered and purified by 
precipitation, by means of alum, by add- 
ing a 4 per cent solution to the water to 
be clarified until a precipitate is no longer 
produced. After allowing the turbid mix- 
ture to stand for 8 hours, the clear portion 
may be decanted or be siphoned off. 
About % grains of alum is ordinarily re- 
quired to purify a gallon of water. 
t otassa_ alum only should be used, as 
ammonia alum cannot be used for this 
purpose. The amount of alum re- 
quired varies with the water, so that an 
initial experiment is required whenever 
water trom a new source is being purified. 
m the purification is properly done, the 
water will not contain any alum, but 
only a, trace of potassium sulphate, for 
uniii ° f the double sulphate 

form Z llh - th , 6 .T arious i^Pnrilies to 
eradnX T f 1° luble c °™P°und which 
fnt wS^-* 6 S ° U . t * mechanically carry- 
iSnhirV S ^P en ^d matter, while the 
calcium ; a +u d radlcal unites wit * the 
SlSuS sulpi ate Water t0 f ° rm iQS ° lubIe 

FILTER PAPER: 

See Paper. 



1S4 parts 

57 parts 
13 parts 



IXTINGUISHERS 

FIRE EXTINGUISH^ 

Automobiles); (p 01 

Mix well together j 

98 Parts of Carbonate nf a , 
2 Parts of Oxide of 

When this mixture is thrown 
carbonic gas is liberated Th;f ° n a ^ re 
heavier than air, smothers the fS in & 

FIREARM LUBRICANTS - 

See Lubricants. 

FIRE EXTINGUISHERS; 
I. — Calcium chloride. 
Magnesium chh> 

ride 

Sodium chloride. . 
Potassium b r o - 

mide. ... u 

Barium chloride.. 3 p arts 
Water to make... 1,000 parts 
Dissolve and fill into hand grenades. 

II. — Iron sulphate 4 parts 

Ammonium sul- 

P hate 16 parts 

_ Water 100 parts 

Mis, dissolve, and fill into flasks. 

III. — Sodium chloride, , . 430 parts 

Alum. 195 parts 

Glauber salts 50 parts 

Sodium carbonate, 

impure. 35 parts 

Water glass 206 parts 

Water 233 parts 

Mix, etc. 

IV. — Sodi urn chloride. . . 90 parts 

Ammonium chlo- 
ride 45 parts 

Water 300 parts 

Mix, dissolve, and put into quart 
flasks of very thin glass, which are to be 
kept conveniently disposed in the dwell- 
ing rooms, etc., of all public institutions. 
V.— Make 6 solutions as follows: 

a. — A m m o n i u m 

chloride....- 20 pars 
Water 2,000 parts 

b. — Alum, calcined 

and powdered 35 part* 
Water. _ 1.000 parts 

c. — Ammonium sul- 

Water .. 500 p»f 

e. — Sodium carbon- 
ate 

Water 

/. — Liquid water 
glass 



35 par* 5 
500 parts 

450 pa rts 

I 



FIRE EXTINGUISHERS— FIREPROOFING 



34 J 



Uix the solutions in the order named 
j* the mixture, while still yellow and 
i A add 2,000 parts of water, and let 
turbid, when t]ic precipitate has sub- 
sta nil * fi ,i ff the clear liquid into thin 
si , Preferably blue, to deter decom- 
gI 1tion) containers each of 3 pints to a 
EX gallon capacity. 
VT —Calcium chloride.. 30 parts 
Magnesium chlo- 
ride 10 parts 

Water 60 P arts 

Vji —Sodium chloride . . 20 parts 
Ammonium chlo- 
ride . , . , 9 parts 

Water 71 parts 

VI n _Sodium carbonate 16 parts 
* Sodium chloride. 64 parts 
Water 920 parts 

The most effective of all extinguishers 
is ammonia water. It is almost instan- 
taneous in its effect, and a small quan- 
tity only is required to extinguish any fire. 
Next in value is carbonic acid gas. This 
may be thrown from siphons or soda- 
water tanks. The vessel containing it 
should be thrown into the fire in such a 
way as to insure its breaking. 

Dry Powder Fire Extinguishers.— The 

efficacy of these is doubted by good 
authorities. They should be tested be- 
fore adoption. 

I.— Alum 24 parts 

Ammonium sulphate 52 parts 
Ferrous sulphate 4 parts 

II. — Sodium chloride 8 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 6 parts 

Sodium sulphate.. . . 2 parts 

Calcium chloride.. . . 2 parts 

Sodium silicate 2 parts 

III. — Sodium chloride. ... 6 parts 

Ammonium chloride 6 parts 
Sodium bicarbonate. . 8 parts 

IV. — Ammonium chloride 10 parts 

Sodium sulphate. ... 6 parts 
Sodium bicarbonate 4 parts 

Oil Extinguisher. — To extinguish oils 
Which have taken fire, a fine-meshed 
Wl re net of the size of a boiling pan 
should be kept on hand in every varnish 
tactory, etc. In the same moment when 
V 3 e letting is laid upon the burning sur- 
| ac . e » the flame is extinguished because 
. 13 a glowing mass of gas, which the 
Fon yire quickly cools off so that it can- 
n °t glow any more. The use of water is 
* x cluded, and that of earth and sand un- 
desirable, because both dirty the oil. 



Substitute for Fire Grenades. — A com- 

XtiSnVf b ° ttle 611ed With a »t«at?d 
solution of common salt makes a cheap 

and efficient substitute for the ordinary 

hand grenade. The salt forms a coating 

on all hat the water touches and make! 

it nearly incombustible. 

Fireproofing 

For Textiles.-pL— Up to the presen 
this has generally been accomplished b 
the use of a combination of water glas 
or soluble glass and fungstate of soda 
The following is cheaper and more suit 
able for the purpose: 

Equal parts, by weight, of commercia 
white copperas, Epsom salt, and sal am 
moniac are mingled together and mixe 
with three times their weight of ammoni 
alum ; This mixture soon changes int 
a moist pulp or paste, that must Be dri 
by a low heat. When dressing the m 
tcrial, add £ part of this combination t 
every 1 part of starch. 

II. — Good results are also obtaine 
from the following formula: Supersat 
rate a quantity of superphosphate o 
lime with ammonia, filter, and decolori 
it with animal charcoal. Concentra 
the solution and mix with it 5 per ce 
of gelatinous silica, evaporate the water 
dry, and pulverize. For use mix 30 parts 
of this powder with 35 parts of gum and 
35 parts of starch in sufficient water to 
make of suitable consistency. 

HI —As a sample of the Melunay 
process, introduced in France, the fol- 
lowing has been published: Apply to a 
cotton fabric like flannel et or other 
cotton goods, a solution of stannate of 
soda fo? a salt chemically equivalent) of 
he strength of 5 to 10° Be., then dry 

again dried and the t jtamun 
mate y feed bj .™£ ntftgeOTW to em- 
alkaline bath. It 1S a J^f ution 0 f silicate 
ploy for this purpose a wluto & 

of soda of ab 7y t 4 un c S tate of soda and 
bath, composed o t angst & 

ammonium chlorite, m j h £ dr-^ 
The objects -a« -^"^yTor trade. 
an d ^^<^n**>$ 
J bath containing titani 
j " a u -xd a suitable solvent 
together, with 



variation cqi 
mixed 
tungsten, anc 
IV.— Boil 



consta 



FIREPROOFINCr 



stirring, the following ingredients until a 
homogeneous mass results: 

Linseed oil 77 parts 

Litharge 10 parts 

Sugar of lead.. 2 parts 

Lampblack 4 parts 

Oil turpentine 2 parts 

Umber 0.4 parts 

Japanese wax 0.3 parts 

Soap powder I A P arts 

Manila copal 0.7 parts 

Caoutchouc varnish.. 2 parts 

V. — -For Light Woven Fabrics. — 
Ammonium sulphate, 8 parts, by weight; 
ammonium carbonate, 2.5 parts; borax, 
2; boracic acid, 3; starch, 2; or dextrin, 
0.4, or gelatin, 0.4; water, 100. The 

• fabric is to be saturated with the mixture, 
previously heated to 86° F., and dried; 
it can then be calendered in the ordinary 
way. The cost is only 2 ov 3 cents 
for 16 yards or more of material. 

VI. — For Rope and Straw Matting. - 
Ammonium chloride (sal ammoniac), 15 
parts, by weight; boracic , acid, 6 parts; 
borax, 3; water, 100. The articles are 
to be left in the solution, heated to 
212° F. for about 3 hours, then squeezed 
out and dried. The mixture costs 
about 5 cents a quart. 

VII. — For Clothing.— The following 
starch is recommended: Sodium tung- 
state, perfectly neutral, 30 parts; borax, 
20; wheat or rice starch, 60. The con- 
stituents are to be finely pulverized, 
sharp y dried, and mixed, and the starch 
used like any other. Articles stiffened 
with it, if set on fire, will not burst into 
name, but only smolder. 

VIII. For Tents.— 

Water loo 

Ammonium 

sulphate, 
chemically 

pure 

Boracic acid . . 
Hartshorn salt 

Borax 

Glue water. . . . 

pkfta m'ta .""i™" P ut ammonium 



14 
1 

1 
3 

2 



Parts 

by 
weight. 



sul- 



...en add the remaining 

S?s& hotwatir- Thr 1 

kept covered untH tl« ? V ^ sh -° uld be 
plete. tU the s °lution is com- 

IX IT 

recommended ^ Dec ° ratio *s. -Much 
ing composition ^ USe ? as a fireproof- 
mposition is a cheap mixture of 



IB*. * 



borax, bitter salt, and water - 
canvas a mixture of ammonbS is * '<* 
gypsum, and water. Armt -PW 
Itate and sodium tungX* 1 ^ S S 
named for impregnating tL^ *K 
before painting. u ut - c an V a s 

m X.— For Mosquito NetW t 
m a 20 per cent solution of*^ meT se 
sulphate. One pound of W^ 111 ^ 
require from 20 to 24 ounces ; nf Ju 8 ^ 
turn to thoroughly saturate Aft Solu ' 
drawmg from the bath, do ii?t 
out, but spread it ov« » Vtr WTltl g it 

or some 



such object, and let it get 
then iron it out with a 
material (ammonium 
offensive. 



{** kail |3£ 
hot iron Ttf 
sulphate) i a 



in* 



Fireproofing of Wood.-Strictly spca]f 
ing, it is impossible to render wood r n 
pletely incombustible, but an almost ah" 
solute immunity against the attacks of 
fire can be imparted. 1 
Gay-Lussac was one of the first to la! 
down the principal conditions indispen. 
sable for rendering organic matters m 
general and wood in particular, unin- 
nam triable. 

During the whole duration of the 
action of the heat the fibers must be kept 
from contact with the air, which would 
cause combustion. The presence of 
borates, silicates, etc., imparts this prop- 
erty to organic bodies. 

Combustible gases, disengaged by the 
action of the heat, must be mingled in 
sufficient proportion with other gases 
difficult of combustion in such a way that 
the disorganization of bodies by heat will 
be reduced to a simple calcination with- 
out production of flame. Salts volatile 
or decomposable by heat and not com- 
bustible, like certain ammoniacal salts, 
afford excellent results. 

Numerous processes have been rec- 
ommended for combating the inflam- 
mability of organic tissues, some consist" 
iner in external applications, others W 



injection, under 
saline solutions 



a certain press 



ii re, 



of 



By simple superficial applications i onfe 
illusory protection is attained, tor i , 
coverings, instead of fireproofing tn f 
jects on which thev are applied, # 
them only for the moment from a s * 
Resistance to the fire being ot ou 



flame 

short duration, these coatings 
or are rapidly reduced to asne ^ se ^ > It 
parts covered are again eXP ^^gs 



often happens, too, that sue. rre nce 
have disappeared before the ° ri _p f i v be- 
of a fire, so that the so-called remea^ 
comes injurious from the iais 
occasioned. 



n REPROOFING 



34)8 



formulas recommended are as 

follows. . mmers j on or imbibition the 
I- ■ <r solution is advised: Ammo- 
fol '° hosohate, 100 parts; boracie acid, 
n imaP BU ' f 3i o00; or ammonium sul- 
jO parts p ' t so dium borate, 15 
P lia » t6 ' boracie acid, 5 parts per 1,000. 
E I of these formulas two coats are 

jjecessary. 

TT for application with the brush the 
fol ding compositions are the best: 

AddIv ho^ sodium silicate, 100 
parts; Spanish white, 50 parts; glue, 100 

h ADply successively and hot; for 
first application, water, 100 parts; alu- 
minum sulphate, 20 parts; second appli- 
cation, water, 100 parts; liquid sodium 
silicate, 50 parts. 

c First application, 2 coats, hot; 
^ater, 100 parts; sodium silicate, 50 
parts;' second application, 2 coatings; 
boiling water, 75 parts; gelatin, white, 
200 parts; work up with asbestos, 50 
parts; borax, 30 parts; and boracie acid, 
10 parts. 

Oil paints rendered uninflammable by 
the addition of phosphate of ammonia 
and borax in the form of impalpable 
powders incorporated in the mass, mor- 
tar of plaster and asbestos and asbestos 
paint, are still employed for preserving 
temporarily from limited exposure to a 
fire. 

IUi — Sodium silicate, 

solid 850 parts 

Asbestos, pow- 
dered. 350 parts 

Water, boiling 1,000 parts 

Mix. Give several coatings, letting 
each dry before applying the next. 

^■—Asbestos, powdered 35 parts 
Sodium borate .... 20 parts 

Water ioo parts 

Gun. lac 10 to 15 parts 

a :? ls /° lve the borax in the water* by the 
sot* ti ea V and in the hot solution dis- 
&U • "When solution is corn- 
lasts i nc ? r P or ?-te the asbestos. These 
th? „ffi^ ons E ive a superficial protection, 
hum? Clei ? Cy of whIt;h depends upon the 
«iDer of coatings given. 
-p 

dium •T ,re ^ a,r " a s y ru Py solution of so- 
a *d r.nt! C 5 e ' 1 P art > and water, 3 parts, 
partin , - Wood 2 to 3 times, thus im- 
la 8. it i great harcInes s. After dry- 
coftsi^ 8 1Ve » a coating of lime of the 
^oaV, l.? of milk > and when this is al- 



r y. is fixed by a strong solution of 



SSyZfaJte****. syrupy m „» 

thick, repeat th 'ireata^ "Sff^ 
uble glass. weo ' mthl the soU 

a solution of S3 p art ™^hng heat of 

ta^* T? Chl ° r i d ! in Parts 8 °o 

y^\ er \ The wood thus treated is said to 
be perfectly incombustible even at great 
heat, and, besides, to be also protected by 
tins method against decay, injurv bv in- 
sects, and putrefaction. 

VII.— One of the simplest methods is 
to saturate the timber with a, solution of 
tungstate of soda; if this is done in a 
vacuum chamber, by means of which the 
wood is_ partly deprived of the air con- 
tained in its cells, a very satisfactory 
result will be obtained. Payne's process 
consists in treating wood under these 
conditions first with solution of sul- 
phate of iron, and then with chloride of 
calcium; calcium sulphate is thus pre- 
cipitated in the tissues of the timber, 
which is rendered incombustible and 
much more durable. There are several 
other methods besides these, phosphate 
of ammonia and tungstate being most 
useful. A coat of common whitewash is 
an excellent means of lessening the com- 
bustibility of soft wood. 

Fireprooflng Wood Pulp.— The pulp 

is introduced into a boiler containing a 
hot solution of sulphate and phosphate of 
ammonia and provided with a stirring 
and mixing apparatus, as well; « ™» 

jacketing for steam pipes- 

Fireproo&ng for ^I&e ^ 

tiles, etc.-The materia^ tobe ^ ^ gi 
proof is treated with a solutm ^ ^ 

farts of P° tassl n U £ m C borSe in 100 par) 
farts of ^«J^ b Sce«ive heat 
of water. Wnerevei cQver3 
curs, this compoun^ wl & 
substance, is for ^ a J u ff from burning! 
thus Protecting fi b Considerable amount 
at the same tune a co ^ whic h 

of carbonic acid « 
smothers the flames. 



844 



n REPROOFING — FLOOR DRESSINGS 



MISCELLANEOUS FORMULAS FOR 
FIREPROOFING. 

I. In coating steel or other furnaces, 

first brush over the brickwork to be cov- 
ered a solution made by boiling 1 pound 
each of silicate of soda and alum in 4 
gallons of water, and follow immediately 
with composition: 

Silica 50 parts 

Plastic fire clay . . , . 10 parts 
Ball clay 3 parts 

Mix well. 

Fireproof Compositions.— II. — For fur- 
naces, etc.: 

Pure silica (in grain) 60 parts 

Ground flint 8 parts 

Plaster of Paris 3 parts 

Ball clay 3 parts 

Mix well together by passing once or 
more through a fine sieve, and use in the 
same way as cement. 

Fireproof Paper. — Paper is rendered 
fireproof by saturating it with a solution 
of 

Ammonium sulphate. 8 parts 

Boracicacid 3 parts 

Borax 2 parts 

Water 100 parts 

For the same purpose sodium tung- 
state may also be employed. 

m Fireproof Coating.— A fireproof coat- 
ing (so-called) consists of water, 100 
parts; strong glue, 20 parts; silicate of 
soda, 38° Be., 50 parts; carbonate of soda, 
35 parts; cork in pieces of the size of a 
pea, 100 parts. 

Colored Fireproofing. — I. — Ammo- 
nium sulphate, 70 parts; borax, 50 parts; 
glue, 1 part; and water up to 1,000 
parts. 

II Solution 0 f g i uej 5 paytSj Zlnc 
chloride, 2 parts; sal ammoniac, 80 
parts; borax, 57 parts; and water up to 
/UU parts. c 

If the coating is to be made visible bv 
coloration, an addition of 10 parts of 
Cassel brown and 6 parts of soda per 
1,000 p ar ts is recommended, which may 
be dissolved separately in a portion of 
the water used. 

FIREPROOFING MATCHES; 

Mix a small quantity, % ounce or so of 
E?^T % I thoroughly. Hold the match 

iJt^ °\ A or % inch fr °m the end. 

of th?m^w 7 - This makes the handle 
when i f ^reproof, and it will go out 
wnen it comes to the treated wood. 



FISH BAIT 

Oil of rhodium . 9 

Oil of cumin. % P^ts 

Tincture of musk ' * * " * parts 



Mix., Put a drop or two on if 
rub trigger of trap with the solution. ' 0r 

FIXATIVES FOR CRAVnw 

ETGS, ETC. KAY0N t>RATV, 

I- — Shellac An 1 t> ^ 

Sandarac... |q 1 *> ns 
Spirit of wine. 940 ( w eight, 
— During the Civil War TO i, ', 
alcohol and shellac often werlb ^ 
chasable, and where, in the fi-u pUr " 
daily, ink was almost unknot ^ 
sized paper, of any description * i ^ 
men m the field were coSpS'ed S"^ 
Pen S f01 ' corres Pondence of all son? 
Where the communication was o a na 
Jure to make its permanency desirable" 
the paper was simply dipped i n S 

rably Such documents written with a 
pencil on unsized paper have stood the 
wear and rubbing of upward of 40 years. 

To Fix Pounced Designs.— Take beer 
p? nailk or alcohol, in which a little 
bleached shellac has been dissolved, and 
blow one of these liquids upon the freshly 
pounced design by means of an atomizer. 
After drying, the drawing will have the 
desired fixedness. 

FIXING BATHS FOR PAPER MD 
^ NEGATIVES: 

See Photography. 

FLANNELS, WHITENING OF: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

FLASH-LIGHT APPARATUS AND 
POWDERS : 

See Photography. 

FLAVORINGS: 

See Condiments. 

FLEA DESTROYERS: 

See Insecticides. 

FLIES IN THE HOUSE: 
See Household Formulas. 

FLIES AND PAINT: 

See Paint. 



Floor Dressings 



ad 



(See also Paint, Polishes, Waxes, 
Wood.) 

j.— Burn* 



bla ck », 



. Oil Stains for Hard Floors. 

sienna, slate brown, or wine ^ 
ground with strong oil varnis a , - ae d 
paint mill. The glazing color oot> 



FLOOR DRESSINGS— FLOWER PRESERVATIVES 34,5 



■ thinned with a mixture of oil of tur- 
pentine and applied with a brush on the 
P spcctive object. The superfluous stain 
;« at once wiped away with a rag, so that 
bsorbe * 
this i: 
; again 

nner all otherwise tinted and 



1S fv "he'absorbed stain remains in the 
-wood- if this is uneven, go over the 



on 



this is 

light places again with dark stain. In a 
iinilar manner all otherwise tinted and 
™lorrd oil stains are produced by merely 



grinding the respective color with the 
Corresponding addition of oil. 



green, 



Thus, 

red, and even blue and violet 
shades on wood can be obtained, it being 
necessary only to make a previous ex- 
tjeriment with the stains on a piece of 
suitable wood. In the case of soft wood, 
however, it is advisable to stain the whole 
previously with ordinary nut stain (not 
too dark), and only after drying to coat 
with oil stain, because the autumn rings 
of the wood take no color, and would 
appear too light, and, therefore, disturb 
the effect. 

FLOORING, SANL-TEX COMPO- 
SITION: 

BLACK, GRAY OR GREEN: 

Magnesite 11 pounds 

Asbestos fiber 3 pounds 

Silica 3 pounds 

Wood flour 1 pound 

Talc 1 pound 

Color 1 pound 

If a BROWN color flooring is wanted, 
use: 

Magnesite 11 pounds 

Asbestos fiber 2 pounds 

Silica 3 pounds 

Wood flour 1 pound 

Talc 1 pound 

Color 2 pounds 

For a RED and WHITE flooring, use: 

Magnesite 11 pounds 

Asbestos fiber S pounds 

Silica 2 pounds 

Wood flour 1 pound 

Talc 1 pound 

Color 2 pounds 

For a YELLOW flooring, use:, 

Magnesite 11 pounds 

Asbestos fiber .... y 5 pound 

Silica 3 pounds 

Wood flour 1 pound 

Talc 2 pounds 

Color 2% pounds 

These make a small quantity. For 100 
">s,, multiply figures by five. 
. paraffining of Floors— The cracks and 
J°ints of the parquet floor are filled with 
5 putty consisting of Spanish white, 540 
Parts ; glue, 180 parts ; sienna, 150 parts ; 



umber 110 parts; and calcareous earth 
20 parts. After 48 hours apply the □ 
fine, which is previously dScSvid £ pt 
troleum or preferably employed in a boil- 
ing condition m which case it will enter 
slightly into the floor. When Sidi^ 
tion sets m the superfluous parafline is 
scratched off and an even, smooth sur- 
tace ot glossy color results, which with- 
stands acids and alkalies. 

Bail-Room Floor Powder. — 

Hard paraffine 1 pound 

Powdered boric acid.. 7 pounds 

Oil lavender 1 drachm 

Oil neroli 20 minims 

IVIelt the paraffine and add the boric 

acid and the perfumes. Mis well, and 

sift through a tV mesh sieve. 

Renovating Old Parquet Floors. 

A good formula for renovating ol 
parquet floors is prepared as follows: 

Benzol 4 pints 

Amyl acetate 3 pints 

Carbon tetrachloride , . . 1 pint 

Apply this mixture to the wooden floo 
and allow to stand for a few minutes o 
until the old coating has been softene 
Then scrape the floor clean with a putty 
knife or with steel wool. Clean thoroughly 
and when dry, wax or varnish as desired. 

When using the above mixture caution 
should be exercised not to have any open 
flames in the vicinity and also to have 
good ventilation as the vapors given off 
are toxic and inflammable. 

FLOOR OIL: 

See Oils. 

FLOOR PAPER: 

See Paper. 

FLOOR POLISH: 

See Polishes. 
FLOOR VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 
FLOOR WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing- 

FLOOR WAX: 

See Waxes. 

FLORICIN OIL: 

See Ofl. 
FLOWER PRESERVATIVES 

L To P^J^S^t^ 

f jt. fluidit 

bejust hot enough dipped one at 

Wby th " talks anaVved abo 
time, held by tne bubbl 

iuf flo^rsf free from moisU, 



346 

a iA to make excellent specimens 
Sited £ this way. A solution in 
:S cufflowers may b"e kept immersed 
made as follows: 

Salicylic acid 20 grams 

Formaldehyde 10 

Alcohol gflmdounces 

Distilled water I quart 

TT —The English method of preserv- 
t B flowers so as to retain their form and 
for is to imbed the p ants in a mixture 
equal quantities o/ plaster of Paris and 
ie! and gradually heat them to a tem- 
rature of 100° F. After this the 
lower looks dusty, but if it is laid aside f or 
an hour so as to absorb sufficient mois- 
ture to destroy its brittleness, it can be 
dusted without injury. To remove the 
lioary appearance which is often left, 
pen after dusting, a varnish composed of 
nces of dammar and 16 ounces of 
oil of turpentine should be used and a 
second coat given if necessary. When 
the gum has been dissolved in the tur- 

Eentine, 16 ounces of benzoline should 
e added, and the whole should be 
strained through fine muslin. 

III. — Five hundred parts ether, 20 parts 
transparent copal, and 20 parts sand. 
The flowers should be immersed in the 
varnish for 2 minutes, then allowed to dry 
for 10 minutes, and this treatment should 
be repeated 5 or 6 times. 

IV— Place the flowers in a solution of 
30 grains of salicylic acid in 1 quart of 
water. 

V.— Moisten 1,000 parts of fine white 
sand that has been previously well 
washed and thoroughly dried and sifted, 
with a solution consisting of 3 parts of 
stearme, 3 parts of paraffine, 3 parts of 

w3 ?t Bad ' ^ nd 10 ? parts of * leoho1 - 

work the sand up thoroughly so that 
every gram of it is impregnated with the 

KS^ * ^ ™* » j* it 

the fwJli • J • X- r ° use > P lac e 
of whicTh'V SUltable box > the b °«om 
of The it be , Gn C °7 ered ™^ a portion 
latter j£3T d Sand -', 1171(1 then ^ the 
have" been ^ a11 the ^erstices 

remove the W Xp J r , aho ? of this tim « 
The flower" ™n ?l? d th ° S - and esca P e " 
receptacles or ^ hen be P ut . int ° suitable 
deterioration ^\° Ut fear of 

«* should he frl d *J r Wlther ed flow- 

* citable anifin ed T by di PP in £ 
*U restore their co o? S ° futlon * 



FLOWER PRESERVATIVES 



VI.— Stand the flowers iit, • , 
of proper size and p our 0 ^ li HaL 
them fine dry sand? ^ 4 

completely surrounded in i^J***« «£ 
Leave them m this Wav f( ,;^ d irectil 
then carefully p 0ur 8 o r l0 > 

flowers retain their color a!^- A 



iiuw^jLa retain tneir r-nl.-,,. , TV 
fectly, but in very fl«fc? d 
the sand must be renewed t % S ? eci ^as 
ive the sand must be as ni°,£. e ? fi *t. 



ivc 

possible. ™ ue as n€ ariy"dh7 

VII. — A method of preset* 
ers in a condition of freahnl* 8 - CUtfio *« 
solve small amounts 0 f 15 to dis * 
chloride, potassium nitrate aS? 0 ^ 

h l™l* % camphor in 4^1? 
which the stems are inser ^ er 
presence of one or more of tW A e 
keeps the flowers from los ng S'fe 
gidity by stimulating the celfs to ac £ 
and by opposing g erm growth gj* 
ers that have already wilted are said In 
revive quickly if the stems are inserted Z 
a weak camphor water. 

Stuccoed Gypsum Flowers.— Take 
natural flowers, and coat the lower sides 
of their petals and stamens with paraf- 
fine or with a mixture of due, gypsum, 
and licie, which is applied Tightly. Very 
fine parts of the flowers, such as stamens, 
etc., may be previously supported by 
special attachments of textures, wire, 
etc. After the drying of the coating the 
whole is covered with shellac solution 
or with a mixture of glue, gypsum, lime 
with lead acetate, oil, mucilage, glycer- 
ine, colophony, etc. If desired, the sur- 
face may be painted with bronzes in 
various shades. Such flowers are much 
employed in the shape of festoons for 
decorating walls, etc. 

Artificial Coloring of Flowers.--A 
method employed by florists to impart » 
green color to the white petals qt earn* 
tion pinks" consists in allowing long 
stemmed flowers to stand m ^ r J the 
taining a green aniline dye. „ ^ 

flowers are fresh they absorb me 
readily, and the dye is carried 
petals. , , tlie fl 0 irer 

Where the original color oi vx ■ ^ 
is white, colored stripes can oe i ^ 
upon the petals by P utt]ng .,j a suitable 
into water impregnated wH-U huS j, e 
■ , e . Some dyes can t ^ 
S! ,bythe capillary adion ^ 



aniline 

taken up "by the capw-, 
stem and deposited in^ia^ 
petal. If flowers are P lflCC ^ al | am"" 11 
of water containing a very s coJor s oi 
of ammonia in a bell ffa&t ^ 
the petals will generally , ^ 
marked change. Many ^ heC 
flowers when so treated 



FLUID MEASURES — FLY-PAPERS AND FLY-POISONS 847 



and if the petals contain several 
F t« they will show greens where reds 
e yellows where they were white, 
* I 'deep carmine will become black. 
%hen such flowers are put into water 
t te y will retain their changed colors for 

Iff* violet asters are moistened with 
very dilute nitric acid, the ray florets be- 
coSe red and acquire an agreeable odor. 

FLUID MEASURES: 

See Weights and Measures. 

FLUORESCENT LIQUIDS. 

/Esculin gives pale blue by (1) reflected 
light, straw color by (2) transmitted light. 

Amido-pHthalic acid, pale violet (1), 
nale yellow (2). Amido-terephlhahc 
acid, bright green (1), pale green (£). 

Eosine, yellow green (1), orange (2). 

Fluorescein, intense green (1), orange 

yellow (2). 

Fraxin, blue green (1), pale green (2 . 

Magdala red, opaque scarlet (1), bril- 
liant carmine (2). 

Quinine, pale blue (1), no color (2). 

Safranine, yellow red (1), crimson (2), 

FLUXES USED IN ENAMELING : 

See Enameling. 

FLUXES FOR SOLDERING: 

See Soldering. 

Fly-Papers and Fly-Poisons 

(See also Insecticides.) 

. Sticky Fly-Papers. — The sticky mate- 
rial applied to the paper is the following: 

I. — Boiled linseed oil . 5 to 7 parts 

Gum thus 2 to 3 parts 

Non-drying oil . . . 3 to 7 parts 

For the non-drying oil, cottonseed, 
castor, or neatsfoot will answer — in fact, 
any of the cheaper oils that do not readily 
dry or harden will answer. The proper 
amount of each ingredient depends upon 
the condition of the boiled oil. If it is 
boiled down very stiff, more of the other 
ttgredients will" be necessary, while if 
thin, less will be required. 

II. — Rosin 8 parts 

Rapeseed oil 4 parts 

Honey , . 1 part 

Melt the rosin and oil together, and in- 
corporate the honey. Two parts of raw 
unseed oil and 2 parts of honey may be 
used along with 8 parts of rosin instead 
°f the foregoing. Use paper already 
S1 zed, as it comes from the mills, on 
w tuch to spread the mixture. 



III. — Castor oil la ounces 

Ro3ln £7 ounces 

Melt together and spread on paper 
sized with glue, using 13 ounces glue to 4 
pints water. 

IV. — Rosin 8 ounces 

Venice turpentine. . . % ounces 

Castor oil 2 ounces 

Spread on paper sized with glue. 
Poisonous Fly-Papers. — 

I- — Quassia chips 150 parts 

Chloride of cobalt. . 10 parts 

Tartar em eiic 2 parts 

Tincture of long 

pepper (1 to 4) . . 80 parts 

"Water 400 parts 

Boil the quassia in the water until th 
liquid is reduced one-half, strain, add 
the other ingredients, saturate common 
absorbent paper with the solution, and 
dry. The paper is used in the ordinary 
way. 

II. — Potassium bichromate 10 ounces 

Sugar 3 drachms 

Oil of black pepper.. 2 drachms 

Alcohol 2 ounces 

Water 14 ounces 

Mix and let stand for several days, 
then soak unsized paper with the solu- 
tion. 

HI.— Cobalt chloride 4 drachms 

Hot water 16 ounces 

Brown sugar 1 ounce 

Dissolve the cobalt in the water and 

add the sugar, saturate unsized paper m 

the solution, and hang up to dry. 

TV, — Quassia chips 150 parts 

Cobalt chloride. ... 10 parts 
Tartrate antimony. 2 parts 
Tincture of pepper. 80 parts 

Water 400 P artS 

Boil chips In the water until the vol- 
ume of Splatter is reduced one-half ad 
oSer ingredients and saturate paper 

dry. 

Fly-Poison.— 

J _ 4 ounces 

PepP e T 4 ounces 

Quassia g ounces , 

ffffi alcohol/::: * ounce. 
Mix dry and sprinkle around where 
the flies can get it. 

25 parts of quassia u tg of 

6 parts of b^^gee on flat Sishes. 



and 



1 part 



of brown sugar 



348 



FLY-PAPERS— FOOD ADULTERANTS 



cream, and put the mixture on flat 
plates. 

HI.—Macerate SO parts of quassia 
wood with 100 parts of water for 24 
" ours, boil one-half hour, and squeeze 
*~ 24 hours. The liquid is mixed with 
parts of molasses, and evaporated to 
0 parts. JS T ext add 1 part of alcohol. 
Soak blotting paper with this mixture, 
and put on plates. 

IV. — Dissolve 5 parts of potassium 
bichromate, 15 parts of sugar, and 1 part 
of essential pepper oil in GO parts of 
water, and add 10 parts of alcohol. 
Saturate unsized paper with this solu- 
tion and dry well. 
V. — Boil together for half an hour 
Ground quassia 

wood IS pounds 

Broken colocynth. , 3 pounds 
Ground long pep- 
per 5 pounds 

Water 80 pounds 

Then percolate and make up to 60 
pounds if necessary with more water. 
Then add 4 pounds of syrup. Unsized 
paper is soaked in this, and dried as 
quickly as possible to prevent it from 
getting sour. 

VI. — Mix together 

Ordinary syrup. .. . 100 ounces 

Honey , . 30 ounces 

Extract of quassia 

wood . ; 4 ounces 

Oil of aniseed, a few drops. 

Removing the Gum of Sticky Fly- 
Paper.— The "gum" of sticky fly-paper 
that has "leaked" over furniture and 
shelfware can be removed without caus- 
ing injury to either furniture or bottles. 

The "gum" of sticky flv-paper, while 
being quite adhesive, is easily dissolved 
with alcohol (grain or wood) or oil of 
turpentine. Alcohol will not injure the 
Bheifware, but it should not be used on 
varnished furniture; in the latter case 
turpentine should be used. 

FLY PROTECTIVES POR ANIMALS: 

nee Insecticides. 

FOAM PREPARATIONS. 

. A harmless gum cream is the follow- 
ing: 

f-J"sT? igC9t - 1 ? 0 P arts of Manama wood 
inn d j^ s ,with 400 parts of water and 
100 parts of spirits of wine (90 per cent), 
filter Wltaout stron £ pressure and 

tJl°\* Ve 7 5 e pa ^ s oi ^monade syrup 
take 5 parts of this extract, whereby a 




magnificent, always uniform f ft 
obtained on the lemonade. 

II.— Heat 200 parts of m,ui ■ , 
with distilled water during an u a 
vapor bath, with frequent sSrri ln a 
squeeze out. Thin with water if gl an 4 
sary and filter. 1 n eces- 

FOOD ADULTERANTS, SIMPLP n> B 
FOR THEIR DETECTION ESTS 

Abstract of a monograph by to n 
Bigelow and Burton J, Howard . ' 
lished by the DepartmcntX^- 

Generally speaking, the methods rtl 
chemical _ analysis employed in j °j 
laboratories can be manipulated onlvU 
one who has had at least the usual eofieS 
course in chemistry, and some sp«S 
training in the examination of foods is 
almost as necessary. Again, most of the 
apparatus and chemicals necessary are 
entirely beyond the reach of the home 
and the time consumed by the ordinary 
examination of a food is in itself pro- 
hibitive. 

Yet there are some simple tests which 
serve to point out certain forms of adul- 
teration and can be employed by the 
careful housewife with the reagents in 
her medicine closet and the apparatus in 
her kitchen. The number may be great- 
ly extended by the purchase of a very 
few articles that may be procured for a 
few cents at any drug store. In apply- 
ing these tests, one general rule must 
always be kept carefully in mind. Every 
one, whether layman or chemist, must 
familiarize himself with a reaction be- 
fore drawing any conclusions from it. For 
instance, before testing a sample of sup- 
posed coffee for starch, the method 
should be applied to a sample of pure 
coffee (which can always be procured 
unground) and to a mixture of pure 
coffee and starch prepared by the oper- 
ator. 

Many manufacturers and deaI ^ s ,I" 
foods have the ordinary senses so iugM 
developed that by their aid alone tnej 
can form an intelligent opinion ot vx 
nature of a product, or of the ch» r *^ 
and sometimes even of the proporiio 

adulterants present. This V Sp *2ne 
-1« as coffee, ^ ine -' 



true of 



such articles as cuucn j 
salad oils, flavoring extracts, butter, 
milk. The housewife finds nert< f C £fe 
stantly submitting her P« rcliase L. P i c ,pS 
test. Her broad experience 
her senses of taste and smell to . B oft * B 
degree, and her discrimination 3^ j,^ 
sharper and more accurate than ^ Q 
self realizes. The manufacturer 
has developed his natural sense*. 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



. . t n nnreciates best the assistai 
^flaborKn of .the chemist, wb 
c r, %me to his relief when his 



assistance or 
vho can. 

_is own 

often c °f e llot ava il. So the housewife, 
P° few simple chemical tests can 



*1 j n her field of vision and detect 
^"acy impurities that are not evident to 

"^nfere'are here given methods adapted 
tn this purpose, which may be applied to 
mi k butter, coffee spices olive oil, 
Sn^ar, jams and jellies, and flavoring 
^ffrt. In addition to this some gen- 
Sd methods for the detection of coloring 
la ter and preservatives wall be given. 
?ll nf the tests here described may be 
performed with utensils found in any 
wel appointed kitchen. It will be con- 
venient however, to secure a small glass 
funnel, about 3 inches in diameter, since 
filtration is directed m a number of the 
methods prescribed. Filter paper can 
best be prepared for the funnel by cut- 
tine a circular piece about the proper 
size and folding it once through the mid- 
dle, and then again at right angles to the 
first fold. The paper may then be 
opened without unfolding in such a way 
that three thicknesses lie together on one 
side and only one thickness on the other. 
In this way the paper may be made to 
fit nicely into the funnel. 

Some additional apparatus, such as 
test tubes, racks for supporting them, 
and glass rods, will be found more con- 
venient for one who desires to do consid- 
erable work on this subject, but can be 
dispensed with. The most convenient 
size for test tubes is a diameter of from 
\ to | inch, and a length of from. 5 to 6 
inches. A graduated cylinder will also 
he found very convenient. If this is 
graduated according to the metric sys- 
tem, a cylinder containing about 100 
cubic centimeters will be found to be 
convenient; if the English liquid measure 
is used it may be graduated to from 3 to 
8 ounces. 

Chemical Reagents. — The word "re- 
agent" is applied to "any substance used 
to effect chemical change in another 
substance for the purpose of identifying 
component parts or determining its 
percentage composition." The follow- 
ing reagents are required in the methods 
here given: 

Turmeric paper. 

Iron alum (crystal or powdered form). 
Hydrochloric acid (muriatic acid), 
concentrated. 

Caution.— Ml tests in which hydro- 
chloric acid is used should be conducted 
111 glass or earthen ware, for this acid at- 



tacks and will imure metal vessels. C. 
must also be taken not to bring it i, 
contact with the flesh or clothes. If 
accident, a drop of it falls upon 'the 
clothes, ammonia, or in its absence a 
solution of saleratus or sal soda (wash 
ing soda), in water, should be armlie 
promptly. * v 



Iodine tincture,. 

Potassium permanganate, 1 per c 
solution. 

Alcohol (grain alcohol). 
Chloroform. 
Boric acid or borax. 
Ammonia water. 
Hal ph en's reagent. 
With the exception of the last feagent 
mentioned, these substances may be 
obtained in any pharmacy. The Hal- 
phen reagent should be prepared by a 
druggist, certainly not by an inexperi- 
enced person. 

It is prepared as follows: An approx- 
imately 1 per cent solution of sulphur is 
made by dissolving about | of a tea- 
spoonful of precipitated sulphur in 3 or 
4 ounces of carbon bisulphide. This 
solution mixed with an equal volume of 
amyl alcohol forms the reagent required 
by the method. A smaller quantity than 
that indicated by these directions may, 
of course, be prepared. • 
If turmeric paper be not available it 
may be made as follows: Place a bit of 
turmeric powder (obtainable at any drug 
store) in alcohol, allow it to stand for a 
few minutes, stir, allow it to stand again 
until it settles, dip a strip of filter paper 
into the solution, and dry it. 

Determination of Preservatives— The 
following methods cover all of the more 
mportalt commercial P™"™*^ 1 * 
the exception of sulphites and Auondes 
These are quite frequently used ^for pre 
serving foods— the former with meat 
products and the latter with *^ 
Ects-but, unfortunate ^^J*™ 
their detection are not suitable ior " 
hold use. 

Detection of 
determination of saucy" ^ mi _ 

be made with ^^.fSJuld be dfa- 
solid bods, such as jc f ' * fficient vate i 

solved, when Foods con- 

to make them thinly liquid- ^ 

taining in.olnble matto r sue 
marmalade, and ^SrkSel through a 
ate d with water and stram . 
piece of white <=°"°" *$b y nibbing, in a 

he sISeyl?-° n - cid » - sed for preservmg 



850 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



fruit products of all kinds, including 
beverages. It is frequently sold by drug 
stores as fruit acid. Preserving powders 
consisting entirely of salicylic acid are 
often carried from house to house by 
agents. It may be detected as follows: 

Between 2 and 3 ounces of the liquid 
obtained from the fruit products, as de- 
scribed above, are placed in a narrow 
bottle holding 5 ounces, about a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar (or, 
better, a few drops of sulphuric acid) is 
added, the mixture shaken for 2 or 3 
minutes, and filtered into a second small 
bottle. Three or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
chloroform are added to the clear liquid 
in the second bottle and the liquids 
mixed by a somewhat vigorous rotary 
motion, poured into an ordinary glass 
tumbler, and allowed to stand till the 
chloroform settles out in the bottom. 
Shaking is avoided, as it causes an emul- 
sion which is difficult to break up. As 
much as possible of the chloroform layer 
(which now contains the salicylic acid) 
is removed (without any admixture of 
the aqueous liquid) by means of a medi- 
cine dropper and placed in a test tube or 
small bottle with about an equal amount 
of water and a small fragment — a little 
larger than a pin head — of iron alum. 
The mixture is thoroughly shaken and 
allowed to stand till the chloroform again 
settles to the bottom. The presence of 
salicylic acid is then indicated by the 
purple color of the upper layer of liquid. 

Detection of Benzoic Acid. — Benzoic 
acid is also used for preserving fruit prod- 
ucts. Extract the sample with chloro- 
form as in the case of salicylic acid; 
remove the chloroform layer and place it 
in a white saucer, or, better, in- a plain 
glass sauce dish. Set a basin of water- 
as warm as the hand can bear— on the 
outside window ledge and place the dish 
containing the chloroform extract in it, 
closing the window until the chloroform 
uas completely evaporated. In this 
manner the operation may be conducted 
with safety even by one who is not accus- 
tomed to handling chloroform. In 
warm weather the vessel of warm water 
may, of course, be omitted. Benzoic 
ac id, if present m considerable amount, 

I appaa , r ln the dish in character- 

mm Hat crystals. On warming the dish 
«ie unmistakable irritating odor of 
nSES *n j may be obt^ned. This 
S£n« d L 6tect ben * oi c acid in tomato 
Sid ST ° ther articles in which ;t « 

ama, y f dehc f e .. however, for the smaller 
amount used with some articles, such as 



wine. It is often convenient to 
larger quantity of the saianl P , 
the. chloroform layer into two n 1^ 
testing one for salicylic acid a^rl Pi° rtl0ri s, 



Detection of Boric Acid anrt u 
Boric acid (also called boracic aS*'^ 
its compound with sodium fbor ( and 
often used to preserve animal prod V,? 6 
such as sausage, butter snrl ^'^Ucts, 
milk. For the detection 0 f 2*"? 
and borax, solids should be 
with a small amount of water . 
strained through a white cotton rAt 
The liquid obtained by treating s 0 , t& 
this manner is clarified somewhat \ 
thoroughly chilling and filtering throi.2 
filter paper. 6 trough 

In testing butter place a heaping tea- 
spoonful of the sample in a teacup add a 
couple of teaspoonfuls of hot water and 
stand the cup in a vessel containing 3 
little hot water until the butter is thor 
oughly melted. Mix the contents of the 
cup well by stirring with a teaspoon and 
set the cup with the spoon in it in a 
cold place until the butter is solid. The 
spoon with the butter (which adheres to 
it) is now removed from the cup and the 
turbid liquid remaining strained through 
a white cotton cloth, or, better, through 
filter paper. The liquid will not all pass 
through the cloth or filter paper, but a 
sufficient amount for the test may be 
secured readily. 

In testing milk for boric acid 2 or 3 
tablespoonfuls of milk are placed in a 
bottle with twice that amount of a 
solution of a teaspoonful of alum in a 
pint of water, shaken vigorously, and 
filtered through filter paper. Here again 
a clear or only slightly turbid liquid 
passes through the paper. 

About a teaspoonful of the liquid ob- 
tained by any one of the methods men- 
tioned above is placed in any dish, not 
metal, and 5 drops of hydrochloric 
(muriatic) acid added. A strip ?j 
turmeric paper is dipped into the hqui 
and then held in a warm place— near » 
stove or lamp till dry. If boric acid or 
borax was present in the samp le w* 
turmeric paper becomes bright cn ■ I 
red when dry. A drop of household 
ammonia changes the red color to ^ 
green or greenish black. If io ° eT \ c 
hydrochloric acid is used the tuir 
paper may take on a brownish-reel^ ^ 
even in the absence of boric acid. ^ e 
case, however, ammonia cJiaI ?£ er ic 
color to brown just as it does tun 
paper which has not been dipP e ° 
the acid solution. 



f 

i. ~4ir,n of Formaldehyde.— Formal- 
Pe 6C ?s ^relv used With other foods 
dehyde is j nie thod for its detec- 
tion ?»ilK.. 1k . s Kivea later- For ita 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



351 



tion V m P other foods it is usually 
det fs 5 ary first to separate it by distilla- 
» ece foccss which is scarcely available 

j? pTl *£ average person without laboratory 
for.the aver « f ^ tus# For 

^'rpfson no method is suggested here 
bS Se detection of formaldehyde m 
other foods than milk. 
Detection of Saccharine. -Saccharine 
,-fiiri nrcservative power, but it is 
£?S flo Such for this effect as be- 
Sue of the very sweet taste which it 
? ««7rts It is extracted by means of 
Soroform, as described under the 
detection of salicylic add- In the case 
of solid anr 1 semi-soiid foods, the sample 
must, of course, be prepared by extrac- 
tion with water, as described under sail- 
cvlic acid. The residue left after the 
evaporation of the chloroform, if a con- 
siderable amount of saccharine is present, 
has a distinctly sweet taste. 

The only other substance having a 
sweet taste which may be present in 
foods, i. e., sugar, is not soluble in 
chloroform, and therefore does not 
interfere with this reaction. Certain 
other bodies (tannins) which have an 
astringent taste are present, and as they 
are soluble in chloroform may sometimes 
mask the test for saccharine, but with 
practice this difficulty is obviated. 

Determination of Artificial Colors: 
Detection of Coal-Tar Dyes.— Coloring 
matters used with foods are usually 
soluble in water. If the food under 
examination be a liquid, it may there- 
fore be treated directly by the method 
given below. If it be a solid_ or a pasty 
substance, soluble in water either in the 
cold or after heating, it may be dissolved 
m sufficient water to form a thin liquid. 
If it contains some insoluble material, it 
™ay be treated with sufficient water to 
dissolve the soluble portion with the 
formation of a thin liquid and filtered, 
an d then strained through a clean white 
cotton cloth to separate the insoluble 
Portion. About a half teacupful of the 
u <juid thus described is heated to boiling, 
after adding a few drops of hydrochloric 
ac ia and a small piece of white woolen 
cloth or a few strands of white woolen 
yarn. (Before using, the wool should 
c e boiled with water containing a little 
T a V to rec iove any fat it may contain, 
? a o then washed with water.) The wool 
18 again washed, first with hot and then 



as 



with cold water, the water pressed out 
completely as possible, anS the coC of 
the fabric noted. If no marked color?, 
produced, the test may be dkcoS?^ 
and the product considered free from 
artificial colors. If the fabric is colored 
it may have taken up coal-tar colors 
some foreign vegetable colors, and if a 
jruit product is being examined, some of 



Iu i t & ^aiuiucu, some o 

the natural coloring matter of the fruit 
Rinse the fabric in hot water, and thet 
boil for 2 or 3 minutes in about one- 
third of a teacupful of water and 2 or 
teaspoonfuls of household ammonia. 
Remove and free from as much of the 
liquid as possible by squeezing or wring- 
ing. Usually the fabric will retain the 
greater part of the natural fruit color, 
while the coal-tar color dissolves in dilute 
ammonia. The liquid is then stirred 
v, ith a splinter of wood and hydrochloric 
acid added, a drop or two at a time, until 
there is no longer any odor of ammoni 
(The atmosphere of the vessel is som 
times charged with the ammonia f' 
several minutes after it has all bee 
driven out of the liquid; therefore on 
should blow into the dish to remove this 
air before deciding whether the ammonia 
odor has been removed or not.) When 
enough acid has been added the liquid 
has a sour taste, as may be determined by 
touching the splinter, used in stirring, to 
the tongue. t . , 

A fresh piece of white woolen cloth is 
boiled in this liquid and thoroughly 
washed. If this piece of cloth has a dis- 
tinct color the food under examination 
U artificially colored. The color ^ 
may have been a coal-tar derivative 
commonly called an aniline dye, or an 
artificial -lor chemically prepared from 
some vegetable color.. J * ,y\ e urne d 
class the" dyed fabnc » » na lly turned 
i~ v> Hp bv ammonia. . 



™f dXf^^'Ut be disre- 
garded. 

paction of Ca^^ST^ 

copper, often ^f^J^l^, beans, 

tiJTof imported ca ™* e d cte P d as follows: 
spinach etc., may be detec ^ & h 

Mash some pi tne s* f tea . 
with a stiff kitchen sp^n l ia 

sinful Of the P^Vffi id drops 
teaspoonfuls of water • » . h a roedl _ 
of strong hydrochlo nc «ad ^ ^ 



will not answer the purpose) into the cup 
and keep the water m the saucepan boil- 
ing for 20 minutes, stirring the contents 
of the cup frequently with a splinter of 
wood. Pour out the contents of the cup 
and examine the nail. If present iu an 
appreciable amount the nail will be 
heavily plated with copper. 

Caution. — Be careful not to allow the 
hydrochloric acid to come in contact with 
metals or with the flesh or clothing. 

Detection of Turmeric. — In yellow 
spices, especially mustard and mace, tur- 
meric is often employed. This is espe- 
cially true of prepared mustard to which 
a sufficient amount of starch adulterant 
has been added to reduce the natural 
color materially. If turmeric be em- 
ployed to restore the normal shade an 
indication of that fact may sometimes be 
obtained by mixing a half teaspoonful 
of the sample in a white china dish and 
mixing with it an equal amount of water, 
and a few drops (4 to 10) of household 
ammonia, when a marked brown color, 
which does not appear in the absence of 
turmeric, is formed. At the present 
time turmeric or a solution of curcuma 
(the coloring matter of turmeric) is 
sometimes added to adulterated mus- 
tard in sufficient amount to increase its 
color, but not to a sufficient extent to 
give the brown appearance with ammo- 
nia described above. In such cases a 
teaspoonful of the suspected sample may 
be thoroughly stirred with a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of alcohol, the mixture 
allowed to settle for 15 minutes or more, 
and the upper liquid poured off into a 
clean glass or bottle. To about 1 table- 
spoonful of the liquid thus prepared and 
placed m a small, clear dish (a glass 
salt cellar serves excellently) add 4 or 5 
drops of a concentrated solution of boric 
acid or borax and about 10 drops of hy- 
drochloric acid, and mix the solution by 
stirring with a splinter of wood. A 
wedge-shaped strip of filter paper, about 

upper end, and £ inch at the lower end is 
then suspended by pinning, so that its 

lnI u^ dl5 ^ meVSed , ™ the action, 
hom-i !r° Wed to stand for a couple of 
iff ■ best res ults are obtained if 

circulTf 1S . S ° sus P e , n . ded that air can 
iZ h i f e ? ly aroiind 1 e - n «t allow- 
S?e lio„M U?h ^ yth , l . n P ««pt the pin and 
present 1 F ^ d \ S ^ If turmeric be 
IE ^ a L? er T red S? lor forms on the 
Spper P lffi i S H r - 1 below the 

- U . mit t° which the liquid is ab- 

sently from 
inch above the surface 



of the liquid itself. A drop of V, 
ammonia changes this red coll ? USe W 
green, almost black. If too ^tc 
drochloric acid is used a dirtv^ Uch h J- 
color is produced. ' °^nish 

Detection of Caramel a , . 

caramel is used to color ir,° 011 °f 
stances, such as vineear y Su h- 

tilled liquors. To detlct it W° me di s- 
or smart bottles of about IZ JT % ^ 
shape should be employed and aiul 
amount (2 or 3 tablespoon?, k Cqual 
of the suspected sample pUcedTn^ 
To one of these bottles £ ad l 
spoonful of fuller's earth, thT * ^ 
shaken vigorously for 2 nr * mple 
and then filtered * through "filteTn^ 
the first portion of the® fflSS ffifl 
being returned to the filter naoei J 3 
the sample finally collected into the 2 
tube or bottle in which it was ori^X 
placed, or a similar one. The filS 
liquid is now" compared with, the un 
treated _ sample. _ If it is markedly 
lighter m color it may be taken for 
granted that the color of the liquid is due 
to caramel, which is largely removed by 
fullers earth. In applying this test, 
however, it must be borne in mind that 
caramel occurs naturally in malt vinegar, 
being formed in the preparation of the 
malt. It is evident that the tests require 
practice and experience before they can 
be successfully performed. The house- 
wife can use them, but must repeat them 
frequently in order to become proficient 
in their use. 

EXAMINATION OF CERTAIN CLASSES 
OF FOODS: 

_ Canned Vegetables. — These are rela- 
tively free from adulteration by means of 
foreign substances. The different grades 
of products may with care be readily 
detected by the general appearance of 
the sample. The purchaser is, t W 
course, at the disadvantage of not being 
able to see the product until the can is 
opened. By a study of the different 
brands available in the vicinity, however, 
he can readily select those winch are 
preferable. As stated in an earlier part 
of this article, canned tomatoes some- 
times contain an artificial coloring ma 
ter, which may he detected as descrmeu. 

Canned sweet corn is sometimes 
ened with saccharine, which may 
tccted as described. 

It is believed that, as a rule, cann 
vegetables are free from preserv a« ■ 



be de- 
led 



«o7bed by the IS f hqU Y? 1S , ab ' though some instances of chem^ 
aninehtoa^Sl qU ^ tly f V m P«»«?ation have recently been.repjjjjj 
n to an inch above the surface I in North Dakota, and some inip° rtea 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



853 



have been found to be arti- 
%*ni Preserved. The presence of cop- 
nften used for the artificial greening 
Pf'' r,nrted canned peas, beans, spinach, 
^fjTay be detected as described, 
rnffee —There are a number of sim- 
, tots 'for the presence of the adulter- 
P i Jof Ground coffee. These are called 
a -™nle because they can be performed 
S ^m,t the facilities of the chemical 
laboratory, and by one who has not had 
S! experience and training of a chemist. 
It must be understood that they require 
ireful observation and study, and that 
must perform them repeatedly m 
nrder to obtain reliable results. Before 
, nD l v ine them to the examination of an 
unknown sample, samples of known 
character should be secured and studied. 
Unbound coffee may be ground m the 
home and mixed with various kinds of 
adulterants, which can also be secured 
separately. Thus the articles themselves 
in known mixtures may be studied, and 
when the same results are obtained with 
unknown samples they can be correctly 
interpreted. These tests are well known 
in the laboratory and may be used in the 
home of the careful housewife who has 
the time and perseverance to master 
them. 

Physical Tests,— The difference be- 
tween the genuine ground coffee and the 
adulterated article can often be detected 
by simple inspection with the naked eye. 
This is particularly true if the product 
be coarsely crushed rather than finely 
ground. In such condition pure coffee 
has a quite uniform appearance, whereas 
the mixtures of peas, beans, cereals, 
chicory, etc., often disclose their hetero- 
geneous nature to the careful observer. 
This is particularly true if a magnifying 
glass be employed. The different arti- , 
cles composing the mixture may then be 
separated by the point of a pen-knife. 
The dark, gummy-looking chicory par- 
ticles stand out in strong contrast to the 
other substances used, and their nature 
can be determined by one who is familiar 
with them by their astringent taste. 
. The appearance of the coffee particles 
is also quite distinct from that of many 
of the coffee substitutes employed. The 
coffee has a dull surface, whereas same 
of its substitutes, especially leguminous 
Pjoducts, often present the appearance 
of having a polished surface. 

A^er a careful inspection of the sample 
with the naked eye, or, better, with a 
Magnifying glass, a portion of it may be 
Placed in a small bottle half full of water 
& nd shaken. The bottle is then placed | 



on the table for a moment. Pure coffe 
contains a large amount of oil, by reason 
of which the greater portion of'tKSple 
will float M\ coffee substitutes anc ? 



some particles of coffee sink to the bot- 
tom of the hqmd. A fair idea of the 
purity of the sample can often be deter- 
mined by the proportion of the sample 
which, floats or sinks. 

Chicory contains a substance which 
dissolves in water, imparting a brownish- 
red color. When the suspected sample 
is dropped into a glass of water, the 
grains of chicory which it contains may 
be seen slowly sinking to the bottom, 
leaving a train of a dark-brown colored 
liquid behind them. This test appears 
to lead to more errors in the hands of 
inexperienced operators than any other 
test here given. Wrong conclusions 
may be avoided by working first with 
known samples of coffee and chicory as 
suggested above. 

Many coffee substitutes are now sold 
as such and are advertised as more 
wholesome than coffee. Notwithstand- 
ing the claims that are made for them, 
a few of them contain a considerable per- 
centage of coffee. Thi3 may be deter- 
mined by shaking a teaspoonful in a bot- 
tle half full of water, as described above. 
The bottle must be thoroughly shaken 
so as to wet every particle of the sample. 
Few particles of coffee substitutes will 
float. 

Chemical Tests.— Coffee contains no 
starch, while all of the .substances ex- 
cept chicory, used for its addteration 
and in the preparation of .coffee subsh 
tutes contain a considerable 
starch. The presence of such substi 
tutes may, therefore, be 
applying the test for «t"ch In maung 

that should be added can only 
termined by experience. 

* 1 courts —Tomato catsup 
Condimental Sauces ±o fre _ 

and other condiment^ sauces 

q-ntly jCSe e d rvSves C e°mployed are 
dally. The P« s «". d d benzoic acid 
usually salicylic acid a pro ducts 
or their sodium salt s. ^ £ g ; yen . 
may be detected by tne t[ e m- 

cVd-tar colors are jr q 
ployed with this class or f, ]ik 
Sally with those of ■ .redd ^ 
tomato catsup. J- n «*J J 
by the methods given. 



854 

DAIRY PRODUCTS: 

Butter. — Methods are available which, 
with a Jittle practice, may be employed 
to distinguish between fresh butter, 
renovated or process butter, and oleo- 
margarine. , 

These methods are commonly usedm 
food and dairy laboratories. They give 
reliable results. At the same time con- 
siderable practice is necessary before we 
can interpret correctly the results ob- 
tained. Some process butters are on 
the market which can be distinguished 
from fresh butter only with extreme 
difficulty. During the last few years 
considerable progress has been made in 
the attempt to renovate butter in such a 
way that it will appear like fresh butter in 
all respects. A study must be made of 
these methods if we would obtain reliable 
results. 

The "spoon" test has been suggested 
as a household test, and is commonly 
used by analytical chemists for distin- 
guishing fresh butter from renovated 
butter and oleomargarine. A lump of 
butter, £ or 3 times the size of a pea, is 
placed in a large spoon and heated over 
an alcohol or Bunsen burner. If more 
convenient the spoon may be held above 
the chimney of an ordinary kerosene 
lamp, or it may even be held over an 
ordinary illuminating gas burner. If 
the sample in question be fresh butter it 
will boil quietly, with the evolution of 
many small bubbles throughout the mass 
which produce a large amount of foam. 
Oleomargarine and process butter, on 
the other hand, sputter and crackle, 
making a noise similar to that heard 
when a green stick is placed in a fire. 
Another point of distinction is noted if a 
small portt n of the sample be placed in 
a small boUe and set in a vessefof water 
sufficiently warm to melt the butter. 
Ahe sample is kept melted from half an 
Aour to an hour, when it is examined. 
If renovated butter or oleomargarine, 
the fat will be turbid, while if genuine 
fresh butter the fat will almost certainly 
be entirely clear. 

"Xiu ° + m l ani P u ] a *e what is known as the 
K terh ° use °' "milk" test, about g 
ounces of sweet milk are placed in a 

^?«| m ? U ^ b ° ttle ' which is set in a 
vessel of boiling water. When the milk 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



LnZ ? U ^ l I , heated ' a teaspoonful of 
butter is added, and the mixture sti 

sp fe ter , of . wo °d until the fat is 



mixture stirred 
m„l + ^ ap ^ ter , ot wo °d until the fa 

SniTrS lce vl Wa ter and the stirring con- 

samri T^l the fat lilies. If the 

vS it tfr' ?$F fresh or reno- 
vated, it will be solidified in a granular , 




condition and distributed th 
milk in small particles. If the 
hand, the sample consist' of i^t 
garine it solidifies practicallv \i oleoi Oar. 
and may be lifted by the stirrer Ple <* 
milk. rertr omth e 

By these two tests, the fi rst nf ,. 
distinguishes fresh butter fro™ Wtlct 
or renovated butter and oIhaT P r °ce 3s 
and the second of which dSf-^ 
oleomargarine from either frpcl, k g ^ lshe s 
renovated butter, the nature 0 ^ or 
under examination may be detwSS* 

Milk.— The oldest and simplest™ «. ' 
of adulterating milk is by | \$£!*H 
water. This destroys the Lt S n nth 
ish-whjte color and prod^tfe 
tint .which is sometimes corrected by X 

matt ™ * ° f colo ^g 

Another form of adulteration is the 
removal of the cream and the sale *, 
whole milk of skimmed or partially 
skimmed milk. Again, the difficulty 
experienced in the preservation of milk 
in warm weather has led to the wide- 
spread use of chemical preservatives. 

Detection of Water.— If a lactometer 
or hydrometer, which can be obtained of 
dealers in chemical apparatus, be avail- 
able, the specific gravity of milk will 
afford some clew as to whether the sam- 
ple has been adulterated by dilution with 
water. Whole milk has a specific grav- 
ity between 1.027 and 1.033. The spe- 
cific gravity of skimmed milk is higher, 
and milk very rich in cream is some- 
times lower than these figures. It is 
understood, of course, that by specific 
gravity is meant the weight of a stihstance 
with reference to the weight of an equal 
volume of water. The specific gravity 
of water is 1. It is obvious that if water 
be added to a milk with the specific 
gravity of 1.030, the specific gravity of 
the mixture will be somewhat below 
those figures. 

An indication by means of a h :<iF0 ™' 
eter or lactometer below the figure l.ly 
therefore indicates either that thesainpw 
in question is a very rich milk or toa 
it is a milk (perhaps normal, P e ™g 
skimmed) that has been watered, i 
difference in appearance and nature 
these two extremes is sufficiently obvious 
to make use of the lactometer or hyflr o 
eter of value as a preliminary test o 
purity of milk. . ., 

Detection of Color.— As P reV1 ^ 
stated, when milk is diluted by »»f3# 
water the natural yellowish-wmte . 
U - bluish tint, wh.ch if 



is changed to a 
sometimes corrected by 



the 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



356 



« «Iniine matter. Coal-tar colors are 
of *K employed for this purpose., A 
usually i K hese colors is often obtained 
reaction ior bglow for the detec _ 

*P thC rt ? formaldehyde. When strong 
acid is added to the milk m 
"ore 
me- 

^ eg is evid< • i! t;ir r htLS 



. nf formajueuj-uc. ~& 
f "Sroclloric acid is added to the milk m 
by fmatelv equal proportions before 
a u pP ™£ture is heated a pink tinge some- 
£neT? S evident if a , oai . tar co i or has 

^ Detection of Formaldehyde.-FoTmtd- 
j S P is the substance most commonly 
deh IZr preserving milk and is rarely, if 
S£ SSffSS other, food. Its use 
ffinexeusable and especially objection- 
jf bl e in l milk served to infants and in- 

Va To S "detect formaldehyde in milk 3 or 
AtablespoonfuU of the sample are placed 
in a teacup with at least an equal amount 
nf strong hydrochloric acid and a piece 
3 ferric alum about as large as a pm- 
head the liquids being mixed by a gentle 
rotar- motion. The cup is then placed 
in a Vessel of boiling water, no further 
heat being applied, and left for 5 min- 
utes At the end of this time, if formal- 
dehyde be present, the mixture will be 
distinctly purple. If too much heat is 
applied, a muddy appearance is imparted 
to the contents of the cup. 

Caution— Great care must be exercised in 
working with hydrochloric acid, as it is 
strongly rorrosive. 

Edible Oils.— With the exception of 
cottonseed oil, the adulterants ordi- 
narily used with edible oils are of such 
a nature that the experience of a chemist 
and the facilities of a chemical labora- 
tory are essential to their detection. ; 
There is, however, a simple test for the 
detection of cottonseed oil, known as the 
Halphen test, which may be readily 
applied. 

Great care must be taken in the manip- 
ulation of this test, as one of the reagents 
employed— carbon bisulphide — is very 
inflammable. The chemicals employed 
in the preparation of the reagent used 
lor this test are not household articles. 
They may, however, be obtained in any 
pharmacy. The mixture should be pre- 
pared by a druggist rather than by an in- 
experienced person who desires to use it. 

In order to perform the test 2 or 3 
tablespoonfuls of this reagent are mixed 
Hi a bottle with an equal volume of the 
suspected sain pie of oil and heated in a 
Vessel of boiling salt solution (prepared 
b y dissolving 1 tablespoonf ul of salt in a 
pint of water) for 10 or 15 minutes. At 
the end of that time, if even a small per- 
centage of cottonseed oil be present, the 
12 



mixture will be of a distinct reddish color 
and il the sample consists largely or 
entirely of cottonseed oil, the color will 
be deep red. 

♦i. Eg + gS ;^ Tll f V s n ,° better method for 
the testing of the freshness of an eg" 
than the familiar one of "candling, 
which has long been practiced by dealer 
1 he room is darkened and the egg hel 
between the eye and a light; the presene 
of dark spots indicates that the egg is no 
perfectly fresh, one that is fresh presen 
ing a homogeneous, translucent appear- 
ance. Moreover, there is found in the 
larger end of a fresh egg, between tbe 
shell and the lining membrane, a small 
air cell which, of course, is distinctly 
transparent. In an egg which is not 

Eerfectly fresh this space is filled and 
ence presents the same appearance as 
the rest of the egg. 

It is now a matter of considerable 
importance to be able to distinguish 
between fresh eggs and those that bave 
been packed for a considerable time. 
Until recently that was not a difficult 
matter. All of the solutions that were 
formerly extensively used for that pur- 
pose gave the shell a smooth, glistening 
appearance which is not found m the 
fresh egg. This characteristic, how- 
ever is of less value now than formerly, 
owing to the fact that packed eggs arc 
usually preserved in cold storage. 
There is now no means by which a fresh 
egg can be distinguished from a packed 
egg without breaking it Usually in eggs 
tfift have been packed for * 
time the white and yolk slightly mter- 
mTnfflc along the point of contact and 
k is a difficult matter to separate therm 
Packed eggs also have a tendency to 
2h£Tto fffe shell on one ^«dwh« 
opened frequently have a musty oaor 

■RTAVORING EXTRACTS. 

commonly than other Oavo ^ ^ 



knowledge of tne,r ^ g, dg f oy 

greatest i^tance On y^ ^ 
the examination ui 
will be considered. 

Vanilla bSS^i? 
made by extracting • ft|oob j 0 

alcohol. It co X( tbe characteristic 

solution of J^; 1 "" he (t ; aiI illa bean) and 
flavoring matter ot tw roslD , 

;ve ral other products, ^ sm&l] 

hich , though present 



sev 
w 
am 
in 



the flavor of the product. Vanilla ex- 
tract is sometimes adulterated with the 
extract of the Tonka bean. This extract, 
to a certain extent, resembles vanilla 
extract. The extract of the Tonka bean, 
howeYer t is far inferior to that of the 
vanilla bean. It has a relatively pene- 
trating, almost pungent odor, standing 
in sharp contrast to the flavor of the 
vanilla extract. This odor is so different 
that one who has given the matter some 
attention may readily distinguish the 
two, and the quality of the vanilla ex- 
tract may often be judged with a fair 
degree of accuracy by means of the odor 
alone. 

Another form of adulteration, and one 
that is now quite prevalent, is the use of 
artificial vanillin in place of the extract 
of either vanilla or Tonka beans. Arti- 
ficial vanillin has, of course, the same 
composition and characteristics as the 
natural vanillin of the vanilla bean. 
Extracts made from it, however, are 
deficient in the rosins and other products 
which are just as essential to the true 
vanilla, as is vanillin itself. Since 
vanillin is thus obtained from another 
source so readily, methods for the deter- 
mination of the purity of vanilla extract 
must depend upon the presence of other 
substances than vanillin. 

Detection of Caramel. —The coloring 
matter of vanilla extract is due to sub- 
stances naturally present in the vanilla 
bean and extracted therefrom by alcohol 
Artificial extracts made by dissolving 
artificial van dim in alcohol contain no 
color of themselves, and to supply it 
caramel is commonly employed. Cara- 
mel may be detected in artificial extracts 
by shaking and observing the color of 

Standi Ua >L l 7 m H ter a moment's 
standing. j?he foam of pure extracts is 

colorless. If caramel is present a color 

fffbnbbl P ^ nt \° f c -tact between 
the bubbles until the ast bubble has 
disappeared. The test with fulled 
eartfj given for caramel in vinegar is 

ouir^ f hsi % ct ?*y> b»t of course re- 
quires the loss of the sample used for the 



SSLfSr* eva P OT ated to aC 
one third its volume tke rosins become 
tie to the " 

extracts remain clea* 



in<snl„ki i — "^"v, me mains necom< 
under H rtlficial extracts remain clcai 

theslSsSS % CharaCter ° f 



^^nTabout F ° rthiSpU ^ e 



exti-nM- 7" Liu an ounce of the 

1 bm "ng water until the licmi 



ler 
liquid 



evaporates to about one-third 
its volume Owing to the evan. 3 - 01 
of the alcohol the rosins will +1 pora bon 
soluble. Water may be added tn ht ^ 
the liquid to approximately L 
volume. The rosin will then glria l 
out as a brown flocculent orcmV-* par& te 
few drops of hydrochloric 3 ^ 
added and the liquid stlre, be 
insoluble matter allowed to se+H T tlle 
then filtered and the rosin on L If* 
paper washed with water Th er 
then dissolved in a little alcohol V^'f is 
portion of this solution is added f**} 
particle of ferric alum and to fln ^ U 
portion a few drops of hydrochloSj 
If the rosm be that of the vanilla if 
neither f erric alum nor hydrochloric al 
will produce more than a slight ch»Z 
of color. With rosins from Sst 
sources, however, one or both of S 
substances yield a distinct color change 
lor filtering a piece of filter pap er 
should be folded once through the middle 
and again at right angles to the first fold 
It may now be opened with one fold on 
one side and three on the other and fitted 
into a glass funnel. When the paper is 
loided in this manner the precipitated 
TOu" 8 may be readn - y w ashcd with water. 
When the washing is completed the 
rosins may be dissolved by pouring alco- 
hol through the filter. This work with 
the rosins will require some practice be- 
fore it can be successfully performed. It 
is of considerable value, however, in 
judging of the purity of vanilla extract. 

Lemon Extract. — By lemon extract is 
understood a solution of lemon oil in 
strong alcohol. In order to contain as 
much lemon oil as is supposed to be 
found in high-grade extracts the alcohol 
should constitute about SO per cent of 
the sample. The alcohol is therefore 
the most valuable constituent of lemon 
extract, and manufacturers who turn out 
a low-grade product usually do so be- 
cause of their economy of alcohol rather 
than of lemon oil. Owing to the fats 
that lemon extract is practically a satu- 
rated solution of oil of lemon in strong 
alcohol the sample may be examined by 
simple dilution with water. A tea- 
spoonful of the oil in question may be 
placed in the bottom of an ordinary 
glass tumbler and % or 3 teaspoontuis or 
water added. If the sample in question 
be real lemon extract the lemon o 
should be thrown out of solution by rea- 
son of its insolubility in the alcohol atte 
its dilution with water. The result is » 
first a marked turbidity and later u 
separation of the oil of lemon on tt 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



857 



. tll - aaueous liquid. If the sample 
0 f the aqu leaJ . after the addltlon 

r^^f/P^ if a marked turbidity is not 
of Z„Z'd it is a low-grade product and 
C CS very little, if any, oil of lemon. 

- ;+ p ro duct3.— Adulteration of fruit 
5£toS practically confined to jellies 
P^f;' ^Contrary to the general 
belief 3 3 atia is never used in makmg 
r;fip!lv In the manufacture of the 
cheapest grade of jellies starch >s 
.ffnips emp oyed. Jellies contam- 
■nTst Tel hoover, are so crude in their 
'iearance that the most superficial 
Section is sufficient to demonstrate 
Sit the! are not pure fruit j elhes. From 
heir appearance no one would think it 
^orth while to examine them to deter- 
mine their purity. 

Natural fruit jellies become liquid on 
being warmed. A spoonful dissolves 
readilv in warm water, although con- 
siderable time is required with those 
that are especially farm. The small 
fruits contain practically -no starch as 
apples do, and the presence of starch m 
a felly indicates that some apple juice 
has probably been used in its prepara- 
tion. 

Detection of Starch.— Dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of jelly in a half teacuptul ot 
hot water, heat to boiling and add, drop 
by drop, while stirring with a teaspoon, a 
solution of potassium permanganate 
until the solution is almost colorless. 
Then allow the solution to cool and test 
for starch with tincture of iodine, as 
directed later. Artificially colored jel- 
lies are sometimes not decolorized by 
potassium permanganate. Even without 
decolorizing, however, the blue color can 
usually be seen. 

Detection of Glucose. — For the detec- 
tion of glucose, a teaspoonful of the jelly 
may be dissolved in a glass tumbler or 
bottle in 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water- 
The vessel in which the jelly is dissolved 
may be placed in hot water if necessary 
to hasten the solution. In case a jam or 
marmalade is being examined, the mix- 
ture is filtered to separate the insoluble 
matter. The solution is allowed to cool, 
and an equal volume or a little more of 
strong alcohol is added. If the sample is 
a pure fruit product the addition of 
alcohol causes no precipitation, except 
that a very slight amount of proteid 
bodies is thrown dowvi. If glucose has 
been employed in its manufacture, how- 
ler, a dense -white precipitate separates 
Rtl d, after a time, settles to the bottom of 
the liquid. 



Detection of Foreign Seeda.—In addi- 
t ° ,? e fonns of adulteration to 
which jellies are subject, jams are some- 
times manufactured from the exhausted 
fruit pulp left after removing the juice 
for making jelly. When this is done 
residues from different fruits are some- 
times mixed. Exhausted raspberry oi 
blackberry pulp may be used in making 
_ strawberry" jam and vice versa. Some 
instances are reported of various small 
seeds, such as_ timothy, clover, and 
alfalfa seed, having been used with jams 
made from seedless pulp. 

With the aid of a small magnifying 
glass such forms of adulteration may 
be detected, the observer familiarizing 
himself with the seeds of the ordinary 
fruits. 

Detection of Preservatives and Colors. 
■ — With jellies and jams salicylic and 
benzoic acids are sometimes employed. 
They may be detected by the methods 
given. 

Artificial colors, usually coal-tar deriva- 
tives, are sometimes used and may be 
detected as described. 

Meat Products. —As in many other 
classes of foods, certain questions im- 
portant in the judgment of meats require 
practical experience and close observa- 
tion rather than chemical training. This 
is especially true of meat products, ine 
general appearance of the meat must 
largely guide the purchaser. If, how- 
ever the meat has been treated with pre- 
servatives and coloring matter its appear- 
ance is so changed as to deceive him. 
The preservatives employed with meat 
products are boric acii borax m ^ul 
£h ites The methods for the det ecuon oi 
Ophites are not suitable for household 

^Detection of .^^^£2^ 
To detect bone ac d Of Mwrw 
used the same reaction win oe d 
about a tablespoonful of the c* .gp & 
meat is thoroughly macerate 
little hot water, ^^llrf Ac liqu& 
and 2 or 3 t abl ?PXw£h ^ or 80 



and a or o i*->-— i— , - th 15 or xv 
placed in a sauce dish wxtn ^ 
§rops of strong hydrocfli .0 . g ^ 
each tablespoonf u 1. x \ nd a piece 
filtered fbrough tiltci - p w d 
_c tn^-mftric paper Q'PF? Tf Vioric 



of turmeric paper 
dried near a lamp or__, f . 



dried near a Jamp » d for preserv- 
acid or borax J cre , turro eric paper 
i nC the sar ?P le 'l I a bright cherry- 
Thould be changed to ^0 £ u 

presence 




FOOD ADULTERANTS 



acid. 



black color, it Doric acid is present, it 
the reddish color, however, was caused 
by the use of too much hydrochloric acid 
this green color does not form. 

Caution* — The corrosive nature of 
hydrochloric acid must not be torgotten. 
must not be allowed to touch the flesh, 
thes, or any metal. 

Detection of Colors. — The detection of 
coloring matter in sausage is often a diffi- 
cult matter without the use of a com- 

Eound microscope. It may sometimes 
e separated, however, by macerating 
the meat with a mixture of eoual parts 
of glycerine and water to which a few 
dropr. of acetic or hydrochloric acid have 
been added. After macerating for some 
time the mixture is filtered and the color- 
ing matter detected by means of dyeing 
wool in the liquid thus obtained. 

Spices. — Although ground spices are 
very frequently adulterated, there are 
few methods that may_ be used by one 
who has not had chemical training, and 
who is not skilled in the use of a com- 
pound microscope, for the detection of 
the adulterants employed. The major- 
ity of the substances used for the adul- 
teration of spices are of a starchy char- 
acter. Unfortunately for our purposes, 
most of the common spices also contain 
a considerable amount of starch. Cloves, 
mustard, and cayenne, however, are prac- 
tically free from starch, and the presence 
of starch m the ground article is proof of 
adulteration. 

Detection of Starch in Cloves, Mustard, 
and Cayenne. — A half teaspoonful of the 
s pi ce in question is stirred into half a 
cupful of boding water, and the boiling 
continued for 2 or 3 minutes. The mix- 
ture is then cooled. If of a dark color, 
it is diluted with a sufficient amount of 

w C L * ^ duCe th - e Color t0 such an ex- 
tent that the reaction formed by starch 

Sll 0 ? 1116 may beclcarly apparent if 
starch be present. The amount of dilu- 
tion can only be determined by practice 
but u Sua u y t h e Jiquid mugt If 
with an equaI voiume of wat or 

Jmr.1 te ^ s PO?nful of the sample may be 
?I?S yed e ?"S inall y- A single drop of 
incture of iodine is now added. If starch 
f deep blue color, which fa She 
Dears hU°£ * amo,Jnt of st ^^h a P - 

ur? S ft e , ad<htl0 . n of the iodine tinct- 
until th. k be - , col ? tlnu ed, drop by drop, 

present sh -° WS b f its co ' or t& 

Vresence of iodine m solution. 



Detection of Colors.— Spice « u 
are sometimes colored with tlttJ hsa 
colors. These products may b e 
by the methods given. ae 'ected 

. Vir ^fP r .-~ A P ers onthorouehlvf , 
iar with vinegar can tell much r y ^ 
the source of the article from ife S* r<Un e 
anec, color, odor, and taste a Ppca r . 

If a glass be rinsed out with th* 
of vinegar and allowed to sta * T^ 1 ^ 
number of hours or overnight tS r a 
of the residue remaining i r t the , odor 
quite different with different A* iiJ 
vmegar Thus, wine vi^L ^J 
odor characteristic of wine *vTa • , e 
vinegar has a peculiar fruity odor I 
smal amount of practice with this w 
enables one to distinguish with a kS 
degree of accuracy between wine iS 
cider vinegars and the ordinary fcfljg 

If a sample of vinegar be placed in a 
shallow dish on a warm stove or boiling 
teakettle and heated to a temperature 
sulucient for evaporation and not suffi- 
cient to burn the residue, the odor of the 
warm residue is also characteristic of the 
different kinds of vinegar. Thus, the 
residue from cider vinegar has the 'odor 
of baked apples and the flavor is acid 
and somewhat astringent in taste, and 
that from wine vinegar is equally char- 
acteristic. The residue obtained by 
evaporating vinegar made from sugar- 
house products and from spirit and wood 
vinegar colored by means of caramel 
has the peculiar bitter taste character- 
istic of caramel. 

If the residue be heated until it begins 
to burn, the odor of the burning product 
also varies with different kinds of vine- 
gar. Thus, the residue from cider 
vinegar has the odor of scorched apples, 
while that of vinegars made, from sugar- 
house wastes and of distilled and wood 
vinegars colored with a large amount of 
caramel has the odor of burnt sugar. Ja 
noting these characteristics, however, it 
must be borne in mind that, in order to 
make them conform to these tests, dis- 
tilled and wood vinegars often receive 
the addition of apple jellv. 

The cheaper forms of vinegar, espe- 
cially distilled and wood vinegar, are 
commonly colored with caramel, wnic 
can be detected by the method given- 

FOOD COLORANTS. 

, (Most, if not all, of these colorants 
injurious and should therefore be u 
with extreme caution.) 

Sausage Color.— To dye sausage ^re > 
certain tar dyestuffs are employ 



FOOD ADULTERANTS 



359 



i.llv tbe azo dyes, preference being 
eP e Zto the so-called genuine red. For 

Sb R ur C d irl ° 1.000 to 2,000 parts of 
Rrc dissoiv ^ th(j go | ution 1S com . 

hot w0 Jj J. likewise hot solution of 45 to 
plete, aoa ■ addj wllcreupon tbe 

*°v!£? should be stirred well for some 

D11% ♦Un fiUer, allow to cool, and pre- 

tiffle; in tiffhtly closing bottles. It is 

"CSi, civ necessary in using aniline 

^ i to add a disinfectant to the dye- 

6 * Jlution the object of which is, m 

stUtT ?hr sausage should commence to 

T^rJnose to prevent the decomposition 

de ;S i by the disengaged hydrogen. 

fnstead of boracic acicf, formalin may 

I ,,«ed as a disinfectant. Of this 
be usea m bou{ . g5 tQ 

K 1 'to 8 tfe cooled and filtered dye- 
ft J solution. This sausage color is 
used by adding about U to 2 tablespoon- 
fnls of it to the preserving salt measured 
out for 100 kilos of sausage mass, stirring 
well. The sausage turns neither gray nor 
yellow on storing. 

Cheese Color.— I.— To produce a suit- 
able, pretty yellow color, boil 100 parts 
of orlcan or annatto with 75 parts ot 
potassium carbonate inlHoS liters of 
water, allow to cool, and filter after set- 
tling, whereupon 15 to 18 parts of boracic 
acid are added to give keeping qualities 
to the solution. According to another 
method, digest about 200 parts of or- 
lean. 200 parts of potassium carbonate, 
and 100 parts of turmeric for 10 to 12 
days in 1,500 to 2,000 parts of 60 per 
cent alcohol, filter, and Keep in bottles. 
To 100,000 parts of milk to be made into 
cheese add U to 2 small spoonfuls of 
this dye, which imparts to the cheese a 
permanent and natural yellow appear- 
ance. 

II.— To obtain a handsome yellow 
color for cheese, such as is demanded for 
certain sorts, boil together 100 parts of 
annatto and 75 parts of potassium car- 
bonate in from 1,500 to 2,000 parts of 
pure water; let it cool, stand it aside for a 
time, and filler, add! ng finally from 12 to 
15 parts of boracic acid a3 a preservative. 
* or coloring butter, there is in tbe trade 
a mixture of bicarbonate of soda with 12 
Per cent to 15 per cent of sodium chlo- 
«ae, to which is added from H P^r cent 
10 & per cent of powdered turmeric. 

Butter Color.— For the coloring of 
butter there is in the market under the 
name of butter powder a mixture ot 
s ouium bicarbonate with 12 to 15 per 
J; ei *t of sodium chloride and lHo2 per 
c *nt of powdered turmeric; also a mix 



turc of sodium bicarbonate, 1,500 parts- 

acfd ron 2 s 3° gate f 8 *r ts: and "ESS 

fin.Tid hiSK ' l l 0T the Preparation of 
liquid butter color u 5e a uniform solution 
of olive oil, 1,500 parts; powdered tur- 
meric, 300 parts; orfean, 200 parts The 
orlean is applied on a plate of gkss oi 
tin m a thin layer and allowed to drs 
perfectly whereupon it is ground ver 
tine and intimately mixed with the 
powdered turmeric. This mixture is 
stirred into the oil with digestion foi 
several hours in the water bath. "Whei 
a. uniform, liquid mass has resulted, it i* 
fiUered hot through a linen filter with 
wide meshes. After cooling, the fil- 
trate is filled into bottles. Fifty to 60 
drops of this liquid color to li, kilos of 
butter impart to the latter a handsome 
golden yellow shade. 

INFANT FOODS: 

Infants' (Malted) Food.— 

I. — Powdered malt .... 1 ounce 

Oatmeal (finest 

ground) 2 ounces 

Sugar of milk 4 ounces 

Baked flour 1 pound 

Mix thoroughly. 

II. — Infantine is a German infant 
food' which is stated to contain egg 
albumen, 5.5 per cent; fat, 0.08 per cent; 
water 4.22 per cent; carbohydrates, 
86.53 per cent (of which 54.08 per cent 
is soluble in water); and ash 2 81 per 
cent (consisting of calcium, 10.11 per 
cent- potassium, 2.64 per cent; sodium, 
25 27 per cent; chlorine, 30 65 per cent; 
sulphuric acid, 3.13 per cent; and phos 
phoric acid, 18.51 per cent). 



MEAT PRESERVATIVES. 

(Most of these are considered injurious 

extreme caution.) ^ 

The Preservation oi ^ e ff ~ soon as' 
position of the *eat sete m the 7ein3) 
The blood ceases to pulse^ y 

and it is th er f^ATnt e of itsconsump- 
prcserve it until the time o 

tion. f reservation muSt ,^ 

The nature of P* es " s sUC h as the 
governed by «rcuin* f a ^ ic l e to be pre- 
lind and quality o tn e dimatJC con- 
served, length of ! time a . a „d 
ciition, etc. Wh^ ^ on theS treng* 
alcohol merit recogmoo pres erva- 

lives, m° d j rn J^ onS containing salicyhc 



temperature, i. e., 



d have been the subject of severe criti- 
m. 

Many other methods of preservation 
ave been tried with variable degrees of 
success; and of the more thoroughly 
tested . ones the following probably 
include all of those deserving more than 
passing mention or consideration. 

1. The exclusion of external, atmos- 
pheric electricity, which has been ob- 
served to materially reduce the decaying 
of meat, milk, butter, beer, etc. 

2. The retention of occluded electric 
currents. Meats from various animals 
packed into the same packages, and sur- 
rounded by a conducting medium, such 
as salt and water, liberate electricity, 

3. The removal of the nerve centers. 
Carcasses with the brains and spinal cord 
left therein will be found more prone 
to decomposition than those wherefrom 
these organs have been removed. 

4. Desiccation. Dried beef is an 
excellent example of this method of pres- 
ervation. Other methods coming un- 
der this heading are the application of 
spices with ethereal oils, various herbs, 
coriander seed extracted with vinegar, 
etc. 

5. Reduction of 
cold storage. 

6. Expulsion of air from the meat and 
the containers. Appert's, Willaumez's, 
Redwood's, and Prof. A. Vogel's meth- 
ods are representative for this category of 
preservation. Phenyl paper, Dr. Busch's 
Georges's, and Medloek and Eaily's proc- 
esses are equally well known. 

7. The application of gases. Here 
may be mentioned Dr. Gamgee's and 
Bert and Reynoso's processes, applying 
carbon dioxide and other compressed 
gases, respectively. 

j Air-drying, powdering of meat, smok- 
ing, pickling, sugar or vinegar curine 
are too well known to receive any 
further attention here. Whatever proc- 
ess may be employed, preference should 
be given to that which will secure the 
rmcipal objects sought for, the most 
satisfactory being at the same time not 
deleterious to health, and of an easily 
applicable and inexpensive nature. 

W?a 0 ther reS p Be6f ' etC "' in Hot 

and [55 i7 llt ^ e meat ,nto a hot oven 
wwlSrl It al , remain « n «l the surface is 
JC!? ^ over, thus coagulating the 
bodv «M^ f the SU r faee and inclosing the 
velonpL 6 Y^VV 11 impcrmeabl! en- 
,°°* 0,Je ? fle " h - some melted 

and roll *h i m i° a jar of efficient size, 
re Pvi J 6 around until the sides 

re evenly coated to the depth of half 



an inch with the material p * • 
meat, taking care that it does nl\ n t}l6 
the sides of the jar (thus scramV Uch 
the envelope of grease), and fill aw - a ? 



pletely cover and envelop S£2£t° 
prepared, the meat will remain absolute 
fresh for a Long time, even in tfcl i! e v 
weather. Whin required Vr\^ 
outer portion may be left on or vemJh* 
The same fat may be used S °? B d ; 
over again by melting and retail; ^ d 
the melted stale a few momenL eaTtf '° 

Meat Preservatives. — I —Barment 
Corning Agent: p or every 100 Dart* K 
weight, take 2.5.2 parts/by weight 0 f 
saltpeter; 46.8 parts, by weight, Indium 
chloride; 25.7 parts, by weight, c ane 
sugar; 0.8 parts, by weight, plaster of 
Paris or gypsum; 0.1 part, by weight 
of some moistening material, and a trace 
oi magnesia, 

II. —Carniform, A ; For every 100 parts 
by weight, take 3.5 parts, by weight' 
sodium diphosphate; 3.1 parts, by weight,' 
water of crystallization; GS.4 parts, by 
weight, sodium chloride; 24.9 parts, by 
weight, saltpeter; together with traces of 
calcium phosphate, magnesia, and sul- 
phuric acid. 

HI. — Carniform, B: For every 100 
parts, by weight, take 22.6 parts, by 
weight, sodium diphosphate; 17.3 parts, 
by weight, water of crystallization; 59.7 
parts, by weight, saltpeter; 0.6 parts, by 
weight, calcium phosphate; with traces 
of sulphuric acid and magnesia. 

IV, — "Cervelatwursf (spice powder): 
For 100 parts, by weight, take 0.7 parts, 
by weight, of moistening; 3.5 parts, by 
weight, spices — mostly pepper; 89 parts, 
by weight, sodium chloride; 5 parts, by 
weight, saltpeter; 0.7 parts, by weight, 
gypsum; and traces of magnesia. 

V. —-CervcLatwur$t Salt (spice powder): 
For 100 parts, by weight, take 7.5 parts, 
by weight, spices— mostly pepper; I ° 
parts, by weight, moistener; SI. 6 parts, 
by weight, sodium chloride; 2.5 parts, by 
weight, saltpeter; 6.2 parts, by weigm, 



cane sugar; and traces of magnesia 



VI. ^Rubrolin Sausage (sftice powder). 
For 100 parts by weight, take 53.5 parts, 
by weight, sal ammoniac, and 45.2 P arls ' 
by weight, of saltpeter. 

VII. — Senator Special Milk and Bat- 
ter Preserving Salt: S0.3 per cent W 
crystallized boracic acid; 10.7 per c 



FOOD PRESERVATIVES— FOOT-POWDERS 361 



j««m chloride; and 9.5 per cent of 
sodium ,j tg use 1S> h ow ever, pro- 

blb ' TT1 -JKi/^n^rg Ptfm? Safe: For 
y Vrt<i bv weight, take 5S.6 parts, by 
10( ? T, sodium chloride; 40.5 parts, by 
*1Sht saltpeter; 0.5 parts, by weight, 
weigt". f s of moisture and mag- 
gypsum , w° 

n i^Securo: For a quart take 3.8 
£" bv weight, aluminum oxide, and 8 
P3 r ' b y wetght, acetic add; basic ace- 
of alumina, 62 parts, by weight; 
ta i ,Wic acid, O.S parts, by weight ; 
Sft oxide, with. substantially traces 
nf lime and magnesia. _ - 

v .Michels Cassala Salt: This is 

haTtially disintegrated. 30-74 per cent 
C Hum chloride; 15.4 per cent sodium 
u «h«itr' °3 3 Per cent potassio-sodic 
Sate^el pe/cent water of crystaili- 
Z on- l.« P" cent aluminum oxide; 
and 2 1 per cent acetic acid as basic ace- 
tate of alumina; S.4 per cent sugar; 0 -98 
per cent benzoic acid; 0.5 per cent sul- 
phuric acid; and traces of lime. 

XI — Cor ning Salt : Sodium nitrate, 
SO parts; powdered boracic acid, 4a 
parts; salicylic acid, 5 parts. 

XII —Preservative Salt: Potassium 
nitrate, 70 parts; sodium bicarbonate, 
15 parts; sodium chloride, 15 parts. 

XIII —Another Coming Salt: Potas- 
sium nitrate, 50 parts; sodium chloride, 
20 parts; powdered boracic acid, 40 
parts; sugar, 10 parts. 

XIV.— MacUine (offered as condiment 
and binding agent for sausages): A mix- 
ture of wheat flour and potato flour dyed 
intensely yellow with an azo dyestuff and 
impregnated with oil of mace. 

XV. —Borax 80 parts 

Boric acid 17 parts 

Sodium chloride. 3 parts 

Reduce the ingredients to a powder 
and mix thoroughly. 

XVI. — Sodium sulphite, 

pow dered .... 80 parts 
Sodium sulphate, 

powdered .... 20 parts 

XVII. — Sodium chloride. 80 parts 

Borax 8 P arts 

Potassium nitrate IS parts 

Reduce to a powder and mix. 

XVIII. —Sodium nitrate. . 50 parts 

Salicylic acid.. . . 5 parts 
Boric acid 45 parts 

XIX.— Potassium ni- 
trate 70 parts 



Sodium bicar- 
bonate 15 parts 

Sodium chloride. 15 parts 

XX. — Potassium ni- 
trate 50 parts 

Sodium chloride. 20 parts 

Boric acid 20 parts 

Sugar 10 parts 

A German Method of Preserving Meat. 

— Entire unboweled cattle or large, suit 
ably severed pieces are sprinkled wit 
acetic acid and then packed and trans 
ported in sawdust impregnated wit" 
cooking salt and sterilized. 

Extract of Meat Containing Albume 

— In the ordinary production of meat 
extract, the albumen is more or less lost, 
partly through precipitation by the acids 
or the acid salts of the meat extract, part- 
ly through salting out by the salts of the ex- 
tract, and partly by coagulation at a higher 
temperature. A subsequent addition of 
albumen is impracticable because the al- 
bumen is likewise precipitated, msolubly, 
by the acids and salts contained m the 
extract. This precipitation can be pre- 
vented, according to a French paxent. by 
neutralizing the extract before mixing 
with albumen, by the aid of sod urn 
bicarbonate. The drying of the mixture 
is accomplished in a carbonic acid at 
mo S phere P The preparation d^bes 
in cold or hot water into a white, mUJsy 
HaSid and exhibits the smell andta«te of 
mTat extract, if the albumen added was 
tn^teless The taste which the extract 

original s«'f n «S i *™i n " e , a meat prep- 
SSSffi -tains Ijjj- 

SS3SS 

preparations. 



Foot-Powders and Solutions 

. , 2 ounces 

I, — Boric acid ...•■••* 1 oun ce 

Zinc oleate g ounces 

Talcum 

H —Oleate of zinc (pow- 

\ oun 

dered). 1 oini 

Boric acid . fi ounC es 

prench chalK ^ ounces 

Starch 



FOOT-POWDERS— FORMALDEHYDE 



III. — Dried alum 1 drachm 

Salicylic acid J drachm 

Wheat starch 4 drachma 

Powdered talc 1 J ounces 

IV. — Formaldehyde solu- 
tion. . 1 part 

Thymol -fa part 

Zinc oxide 35 parts 

Powdered starch. ... 65 parts 

drachms 
grains 



ounces 
ounces 
ounce 
ounce 
drachms 

drachms 
ounces 
ounces 

ounce 
ounce 

drachm 
ounces 
drachms 
ounces 
ounce 



V. — Salicylic acid 7 

Boric acid. 2 ounces, 440 

Talcum 38 ounces 

Slippery elm bark. . . 1 ounce 
Orris root 1 ounce 

-Talc.... IS 

Boric acid 10 

Zinc oleate. . . 1 

Salicylic acid 1 

Oil of eucalyptus. . . 2 

V1L — Salicylic acid 7 

Boric acid B 

Talcum 38 

Slippery elm, pow- 
dered 1 

Orris, powdered. . . 1 

S alkylated Talcum.— 
I. — Salicylic acid 1 

Talcum 6 

Lycopodium 6 

Starch g 

Zinc oxide \ 

Perfume, quantity sufficient 
H.— Tannoform 1 drachm 

Talcum 2 drachms 

-Lycopodium 30 grains 

Use as a dusting powder. 

Solutions for Perspiring Feet. 

I.— Balsam Peru U mmims 

rM miC , a u d ; 1 drachm 
Chlora hydrate.... 1 drachm 
Alcohol to make 3 ounces. 
Apply by means of absorbent cotton. 

DL— Boric acid J5 grains 

bodium borate 6 drachms 

Salicylic acid 6 drachms 

Ste?-"' - , 1* ounces 

Alcohol to make 3 ounces. 

For local application. 
FOOTSORES OPT CATTLE: 
oee Veterinary Formulas. 

FORMALDEHYDE ■ 

See also Disinfectants, Foods, and Milk 

tremeW 1 n C - al Fo aldehyde. -This ex - 
uy passing the vapors of wood 



spirit, in the presence of a J r _„ 
heated to redness. The « ^ C0 Pt*r 
of the apparatus employed 'S** 1 P*S 
chamber into, which a jQ.g? » 
and from which 4 parallel i enter s, 
or oxidizers discharge bv n r .^ Pper ^bes 
tube. This chambi?fi t L t ^n e xi s t 

spection apertures, thronA 
course 
an 



3our.se of the process mil C hkh ^ 
and controlled. The wool sl^^ 
in a reservoir, falls into , m - stored 
is volatilized and inCXTZ^i 
air from a chamber which i 5 d ^ 

gases after 



Th< 



traversing the oxidizer are Cr\ ■ * fter 
condensing coil, and the crude . a 
dehyde is discharged into thi I ^ 
ken^+u e ' ine receiver 



with a force pump 

condensing co 
dehyde 
beneath. 

The small amount of unconHm™ a 
is then led through ^SSTrf*?* 
washers. The "formol" thuf jS 
is a mixture of water, methyl fef 
and 30 to 40 .per cent of foSloS 
It u rectified in a still, by which the free 
me hyl alcohol is removed and pure fS 
mol obtained, containing 40 nerivnf r,f 
formaldehyde chiefly in°th e & ofthl 
acetal. Rectification must not be pushed 
too iar, otherwise the formaldehyde may 
become polymerized into triox methylene. 
When once oxidation starts, the heat gen- 
erated is sufficient to keep the oxidizers 
red hot, so that the process works practi- 
cally automatically. 

Determination of the Presence of For- 
maldehyde in Solutions.— Lemme makes 
use, for this purpose, of the fact that 
formaldehyde, in neutral solutions of 
sodium sulphite, forms normal bisulphite 
salts, setting free a corresponding quan- 
tity of sodium hydrate, that may be 
titrated with sulphuric acid and phenol- 
phthalcin. The sodium sulphite solu- 
tion has an alkaline reaction toward 
phenolphthalein, and must be exactly 
neutralized with sodium bisulphite. 
Then to 100 cubic centimeters of this 
solution of 250 grams of sodium sulphite 
(Na;iS0 3 +7H a O) in 750 grams water, 
add 5 cubic centimeters of the suspected 
formaldehyde solution. A strong red 
color is instantlv produced. Titrate wp 
normal sulphuric acid until the color 
disappears. As the exact disappearance 
of the color is not easily determined, a 
margin of from 0.1 to 0.2 cubic centi- 
meters may be allowed without the ex- 
actness of the reaction being injured, 
since 1 cubic centimeter of normal acid 
answers to only 0.03 grams of formal- 
dehyde. 

FORMALIN FOR GRAI3S" SMUT 
See Grain. 




FREEZING PREVENTIVES— FROST BITE 



S63 



FR AMES : THEIR PROTECTION FROM 

FLlES il 1P re is great risk of damaging 
S^f/when trying to remove fly- 

the gi 1 * - t T spirits of wine, it has been 
P eck , S rrviceaSe to .over gilding with 

found setn^T 9 This hardens and will 

ftCO fLT5h treatment, and may be re- 

Sfi whiever removed. 

^CleSfpr^arations and Meth- 
ods. 

FRAME POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 
FRAMING, PASSE-PARTOUT: 

See Passe- Partout. 

Freezing Preventives 



An excellent antifreezing solution can 
be prepared by dissolving ethylene glycol 
in water and placing in the automobile 
Varving concentrations of 
affi gly^may be used; the solution 
Sffinin!*60 parts ethylene glycol and 
40 parts of water freezes at — 57 *• 

Liquid for Cooling Automobile En- 
gines.— In order to prevent freezing of the 
Jacket water, when the engine is not m 
operation in eold weather, solutions are 
used, notably of glycerine and of calcium 
chloride (CaClO- The proportions for 
the former solution are equal parts ot 
water and glycerine, by weight; for the 
latter, approximately h gallon of water to 
8 pounds of CaCU, or a saturated solution 
at60°F. This solution (CaCJ 2 +6Ji 5 Uj 
is then mixed with equal parts of water, 
gallon for gallon. Many persons com- 
plain that CaCl a corrodes the metal parts, 
but this warning need do no more than 
urge the automobilist to use only the 
chemically pure salt, carefully avoiding 
the "chloride of lime" (CaOClj). . 

A practical manufacturing chemist of 
wide experience gives this: 

A saturated solution oE common salt is 
one of the best things to use. It does 
not affect the metal of the engine, as 
many other salts would, and is easily 
renewed. It will remain fluid down to 
0° F., or a little below. 

Equal parts of glycerine and water is 
also good, and has the advantage that it 
will not crystallize in the chambers, or 
evaporate readily. It is the most con- 
venient solution to use on this account, 
and may repay the increased cost over 
brine, in the comfort of its use. It ueeds 
only the occasional addition of a nttie 
water to make it last all winter ana 
eave the machinery clean when it is 



drawn off. With brine an incrustation 
of salt as the water evaporates is bound 
to oceur which reduces the efficiency of 
the solution until it is removed. "Water 
frequently must be added to keep the 
original volume, and to hold the salt in 
s ol uti o n . A s ol ution of cal chi m chl ovid e 
is less troublesome so far as crystallizing 
is concerned, but is said to have a ten- 
dency to corrode the metals. 

Anti-Freezing Solution for Automo - 
bilists. — Mix and filter A\ pounds pure 
calcium chloride and a gallon of warm 
water and put the solution in the radia- 
tor or tank. Replace evaporation with 
clean water, and leakage with solution. 
Pure calcium chloride retails at about 8 
cents per pound, or can be procure"' 1 
from any wholesale drug store at 5 cent 
Anti-Freezing, TTon-Corrosive Sol 
tlor,, — a. solution for water-jackets on 
gas engines that will not freeze at any 
temperature above 30° below zero (F.) 
may be made by combining 100 parts of 
water, by weight, with 75 parts of car- 
bonate potash and 50 parts of glycerine 
This solution is non-corrosive and will 
remain perfectly liquid at all tempera- 
tures above its congealing point. 

Anti-Frost Solution.— As an excellent 
remedy against the freezing of shop win- 
dowsripply » nature consisting , of -56 
r>arts of glycerine dissolved in 1 ,000 parts 
K pe/eeat alcohol, containing to 

only prevent* the formats of frost, but 

also stops sweating. 

Protection of ^X^S 
from Frost. -Alco hoi, g ^ ■ . 
calcium chloride .have .been reco 



calcium chloride ii*y* "— tlnC ge ner- 
ed for the protect ion of *gWgJ nt 0 f 
ators from frost The^mpiJ ^ ^ 
calcium chloride ^ci Hme> 
confounded with ^f* d 0 ? nt8 of view. 



ITolutk/n of 20 g^SSSi^ *. 
In 80 parts of water cong^ temperature 
above zero. But as ^ 
does not generally P« n « Qr 15 parts 
tors, it will aasw^t ^ e f r 

nf the chloride tor i«« i, e sufficient to 
Shfch will almost always be su ^ 
Ivoid congelation Car^ alka ine or 
nottou S esea S alt h Or h deteriorate the 

FROST BITE. unbroken. 



FROST BITE — FRUIT PRESERVING 



I. — Carbolized water. . . 4 drachms 

Nitric acid 1 drop 

Oil of geranium .... 1 drop 

Mis. Pencil over the skin and then 
old the penciled place near the fire 
ntil the skin is quite dry. 

If the skin is already broken, use the 
llowing ointment: 



— Hebra's ointment. . 500 parts 

Glycerine 100 parts 

Liquefied carbolic 

acid IS parts 

Mix. Apply to the broken skin 
occasionally. 

III. — Camphor 25 parts 

Iodine, pure 50 parts 

Olive oil 500 parts 

Paraffine, solid. . . . 450 parts 
Alcohol, enough. 

Dissolve the camphor in the oil and 
the iodine in the least possible amount of 
alcohol. Melt the paraffine and add the 
mixed solutions. When homogeneous 
pour into suitable molds. Wrap the 
pencils in paraffine paper or tin foil, and 
pack in wooden boxes. By using more 
or less olive oil the pencils may be made 
Of any desired consistency. 

iy-~ Dissolve 5 parts of camphor in 
a mixture consisting of 5 parts of ether 
and 5 parts of alcohol; then add collodion 
sufficient to make 100 parts. 

V. — Dissolve 1 part of thymol in 5 
parts of a mixture of ether and alcohol, 
tnen add collodion sufficient to make 100 
parts. 

VI. — Carbolic acid. ... g. 

Lead ointment.. . 40 
Lanolin ......... 40 

Olive oil go 

Lavender oil 

VII. — Tannic acid. .... 15 
Lycopodium. . . . 15 
Lard SO 

VIII.— Zinc oxide 15 

Glycerine 45 

Lanolin. 49 

IX* — Ichthyol jo 

llesorcin * iq 

Tannic acid.. * 10 

Distilled water...'. 50 parts 

twice 7 ad ay 6 iS *° be a PP Jied about 

F MOBT E T P t E ^ SES FOR AUTO- 
MOBILE HEADLIGHTS • 

which ^ tr ° ng +! S0l . Uti0ri of *W° n Salts 
Sales an?wV h f taside surf ^ e ot the 
lenses and let lt dry. If this solution is 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



desired to be removed at anv ««, . 
be washed off with hot water Ca * 
manent frosting can be had b'v A? eN 
the inside of the lens with „ * tub °'n g 
Emery Paper or with po^eTc^ 
borundum mixed with water. ar ~ 

Fruit Preserving 

(See also Essences, Estrapt« „ r ^ 
serves.) ' ^ tract s, and P re . 

How to Keep Fruit Accord ■ 

experiments of Max de Nam : ? K to 
carefully wrapped in silk paper Si K % 
buried in dry sand will preserve 
appearance with a fresh odor o/fl* 
at most indefinitely. It may also ' 
served in dry excelsior, but not 
so well.. In stubble or straw 
very quickly, while in shavmg™^ 3 

often takes on a musty taste and odor 
even when perfectly dry. FixmllV) X ' 
placed on wooden tablets and exposed 2 
the air, most fruit decays rapidly. 

L ~9 rus . hed Strawberry.— p,,t up bv 
the following process, the fruit retains 
its natural color and taste, and may be 
exposed to the air for months, without 
fermenting: 

Take fresh, ripe berries, stem them, 
and rub through a No. 8 sieve, rejecting 
all soft and green fruit. Add to each 
gallon of pulp thus obtained, 8 pounds of 
granulated sugar. Put on the fire and 
bring just to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Just before removing from the fire, add 
to each gallon 1 ounce of a saturated 
alcoholic solution of salicylic acid, stir* 
ring well. Remove the scum, and, while 
still hot, put into jars, and hermetically 
seal. Put the jars in cold water, ana 
raise them to the boiling point, to pre- 
vent them from bursting by sudden 
expansion on pouring hot fruit into 
them. Fill the jars entirely full, so as to 
leave no air space when fruit cools and 
contracts. 

II. — Crushed Raspberry.— Prepare in 
the same manner as for crushed straw- 
berry, using J red raspberries and | 
black, to give a nice color, and using " 
pounds of sugar to each gallon of pulp- 

III. — Crushed Pineapple.— Secure a 
good brand of canned grated pineapple, 
and drain off about one-half of the liquor, 
by placing on a strainer. Add fo e«j 
pound of pineapple 1 pound of f A1 r 
fated sugar. Place on the fire, and MW8 
to boiling point, stirring constai iti>. 
Just before removing from the nre, aa 

sat ura 1 ' 
d. 



to each gallon of pulp "I ounce sat ur; 
ed alcoholic solution of sahcyhc ad 



FRUIT PRESERVING — FUML&ANTS 365 



fars until wanted for 



Put into air-tight ] 

US t'v ^Crushed Peach.— Take a good 
1 j fanned yellow peaches, dram off 
brand ™d ?ub through a No. 8 sieve. 
liq , U ] ° r, ,^ir bring to the boiling point, 
and when r ■ j ounce saturate d a co- 
Lie* solS of salicylic acid. Put mto 
•ars and seal hermetically. 

V -Crushed Apricot. -Prepared _ in 
similar manner to crushed peach, using 
canned apricots. 

VI Crushed Orange. —Secure pr- 
n lt with a thin peel, and containing 
anges wun Rcrnove the outer, or 

P 1 !," 5 1, 3 1 first taking care not to in- 

£ W a P S W p'eel. .(The outer 

S may be used in making orange 

P f Lhate or tincture of sweet orange 
phosphate, or ^ ^ inner( bitte r 

seeds. 



ounces to each glass, adding the usual 
quantity of cream, or ice cream. Draw 
soda, using a fine stream freely. 

. IX.— G-laces. — Crushed fruits, served 
m the following manner, make a deli- 
cious and refreshing drink: 

Crushed fruit 12 drachms 

Juice of half a lemon. 
Shaved ice. 

Put the ice into a small glass, add the 
fruit and lemon juice, stir well, and serve 
with a spoon and straws. 

FRUIT PRODUCTS, TESTS FOR: 

See Foods. 

FRUIT SYRUPS: 

See Syrups. 

FRUIT VINEGAR: 

See Vinegar. 



Next remove the inner, 
Dec l ' quarter, and remove trm 
Sac! part of the -ce, and gnnd the 



peel.) 



duId through an ordinary meat grinder. 
Add sugarf place on the fire, and bring 
to the lo\ ing point. When ready to 
remove, add to each gallon 1 ounce 
Seated alcoholic solution of salicjl c 
acid and 1 ounce of glycerine. Put into 
air-tight jars. 

VII —Crushed Cherries.— Stone the 
cherries and grind them to a pulp. Add 
sugar, and place on the fire, stirring con- 
stantly. Before removing, add to eacn 
gallon 1 ounce of the saturated solution 
of salicylic acid. Put into jars and seal. 

VIII.— Fresh Crushed Fruits in Sea- 
son.— In their various seasons berries 
and fruits may be prepared in fresh lots 
for the soda fountain each morning, 
reducing the fruit to a pulp, and mixing 
this pulp with an equal quantity oi heavy 

^B^riS^Eould be rubbed through a 
sieve. In selecting berries, it is better 
to use the medium-sized berries tor tne 
pulp, reserving the extra large specimens 
tor garnishing and decorative effects. 

Mash the berries with a wooden 
masher, never using iron or copper 
utensils, which may discolpr the iruit. 

Pineapple may be prepared by remov- 
ing the rough outer skin and grating tne 
Pulp upon an ordinary tin kitchen g rater / 
The grater should be scrupulously clean, 
^nd care should be taken not to grate on 
my of the coarse, fibrous matter com- 
prising the fruit's core, ll^-wa. 
s All crushed fruits are served as follows. 
Mix equal quantities of pulp and simpie 
*yrup m the counter bowl; use 



Fumigants 

(See also Disinfectants.) 

Fumigating Candles. — I. —Lime wood 
charcoal, 6,000 parts, by weight, satu- 
rated with water (containing saltpeter. 



I" 1 T c Q WILLI n dL^>i ^v^"- — - a _ 

150 parts, by weight, in solution) and 

dried P again, is mixed with benzoin 750 

narts by weight; styrax, 700 parts, uy 
parts, ny v M • j fc wel gh t . 



oil, 15 parts, by wen 
oil, 3 parts, by weigh,. 

h.-Charcoal, 7,500 P«t», *7 ™ ig , 
sam, 500 parts, dv w g ^ mix tures 



are cms 
solid mass 



weight; clove 6 P*P S A D g cori cl juice, 4 
Z J, 6 parts by weigh t, h j 

parts, by ^"^f Lgcarilla bark, lJt 

?arts by ^S&^o^bark, 1.6 parts, 
parts, by weight cinnam B 

fi y weight; inuflk. 0.W£ dere d and 
Ail these substances a ^ readd ^. 
mixed, whereuponthetouo weight; cm- 

Styrax fe4 6 p jtivWtidoy 
na mon oil, °* 05 h P a ,veight; geranium oil, 
oil, 0.05 P^, by w^ g u ^ nder oil, 0.2 
0.5 parts, by wei g? • dan balsam, 0.B 
parts, by weight, ^ u lid ingredients 
parte by wei^- * e arate Tv, then 



FUMIGANTS 



spacious porcelain dish and intimately 
-lixed by means of a flat spatula. The 
lish must be covered up with a cloth in 
this operation. After the mixture has 
been accomplished, add the essential oils 
and just enough solution of gum arabic 
so that by subsequent kneading with the 
i pestle a moldable dough results which 
possesses sufficient solidity after drying. 
The mass is pressed into metallic molds 
in the shape of cones not more than £ of 
an inch in height. 

IV.— Red Fumigating Candles.— San- 
dal wood, 1 part; gum benzoin, 1.5 parts; 
Tolu balsam, 0.250 parts; sandal oil, .025 
parts; cassia oil, .025 parts; clove oil, 25 
parts; saltpeter, .090 parts. The powder 
is mixed ultimately, saturated with spirit 
of wine, in which the oils are dissolved, 
and shaped inLo cones. 

V. — Wintergreen oil I part 

Tragacanth 20 parts 

Saltpeter 50 parts 

Phenol, crystallized. 100 parts 
Ch arcoal, powdered. 830 parts 
Water. 

Dissolve the saltpeter in the water, 
stir the solution together with the pon- 
dered charcoal and dry. Then add the 
tragacanth powder, also the wintergreen 
oil and the phenol, and prepare fiorn the 
mixture, by means of a tragacanth solu- 
tion containing 2 per cent of saltpeter, a 
mass which can be shaped into candles. 

Fumigating Perfumes. -These are 
used for ouickly putting down bad odors 
in the sick room, etc. They are decid- 
edly antiseptic, and fulfil their purpose 
admirably. 

I. Select good white blotting paper, 
and cut each large sheet lengthwise into 
equal pieces. Make a solution of 1 



ounces 



°?? c V of potassium nitrate in 12 u 
oi boiling water; place this solution ,n a 
large plate, and draw each strip of paDer 
oyer the solution so as to saturate it. 
ihen dry by hanging up. The dried 
Paper is to be saturated in a similar 
manner with cither of the followi 
lutions: 



<*mg so- 



<1) Su 



iam benzoin 1 ounce 

K° ra5t 3 drachms 

Olibanum 2 scrur'es 

Mastlc - ; 2 scruples 

Cascarilla 2 drachms 

^ a " 1 . I ' a - 1 drachm 

Rectified spirit 8 ounces 

miritTJ? the i, oIids and macerate in the 
■pint 5 days, filter, and add 

Oil of cinnamon 8 parts 

OH of cloves S parts 



Oil of bergamot . 

Oil of neroli 

Mix. 

(2) 



Parts 

Parts 



ounces 



ounces 
drops 



Benzoin. ... ■, . 

Sandalwood ounces 
Spirit... . .. .WW g ° unc e 

Macerate as No. 1, and add 
Essence of vetiver . 3 
Oil of lemon grass, \ 40 
Mix. 

After the paper is dry, cut , In ; . 
suitable sized pieces to go into lnto 
cial envelopes. g ° C0Q ^ er . 

II- — Benzoin 1 1™ „ 

Storax lav T nCe 

■n ■ 1 av. ounce 

fumigating es- 

sence a fl„;j„ 

Ether lfln r t" nCeS 

Acetic acid, glacial 20 drops 
Acoho1 Sfluidounces 
Dissolve the benzoin and storax in a 
mixture of the alcohol and ether, filter 
and add the fumigating and the acetic 
acid. Spread the mixture upon filtering 
or bibulous paper and allow it to dry 
1 o prevent sticking, dust the surface with 
talcum and preserve in wax paper. When 
used the paper is simply warmed, or held 
over a lamp. 



III. 



-Musk 

Oil of rose 1 

Benzoin 100 



Myrrh , 
Orris root. . 
Alcohol (**0 
cent) 



12 
250 



0.2 parts 
part 
parts 
parts 
parts 



per 



500 parts 



SO 
20 
20 



IV. — Benzoin 

Balsam Tolu. . . 

Storax 

Sandal wood 20 

Myrrh 10 

Cascarilla bark. . . . 20 

Musk -. ... 0.2 

Alcohol 250 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 

Fumigating Ribbon. — I.— Take i-inch 
cotton tape and saturate it with niter; 
when dry, saturate with the following 
tincture: 

Benzoin 1 ounce 

Orris root 1 ounce 

Myrrh 2 drachms 

Tolu balsam 2 drachms 

Musk. 10 grains 

Rectified spirit 10 ounces 

Macerate for a week, filter, and add 
10 minims of attar of rose. 

II. — Another good formula which ma? 
also be used for fumigating paper, is: 



ounces 
ounce 
drachms 
ounce 

rachms 
ounces 



Olibanum 

Storax 

Benzoin. . . • ■ 

Peruvian balsam.,. h o 

Tolu balsam.. j* • 

Rectified spirit. .... 10 

Macerate 10 days, and filter 
perfumed Fumigating Pastilles 
j L-Vegetable charcoal. . 6 oui. 

Benzoin. ■ 
Kitrate of potasn. . 

Tolu balsam drachms 

Sandalwood » dracnms 

Muciiage of tragacanth, a suffi- 
ciency. 

B^uce the solids to fine powder, mix, 
? make into a stiff paste with the mu- 
etie Divide this into cones 25 grains 
g^Sght, and dry with a gentle neat. 



6 

1 ounce 
^ ounce 

2 drachms 



TT —Powdered willow 

U " charcoal 8 ounces 

Benzoic acid....... J ° unc , e * 

Nitrate of potash... 6 drachms 

Oil of thyme 4 drachm 

Oil of sandal wood. . 1 drachm 

Oil of caraway I drachm 

Oil of cloves | drachm 

Oil of lavender } drachm 

Oil of rose I drachm 

Rose water 10 ounces _ 

Proceed as in I, but this recipe is 
better for the addiLion of 20 grams of 
powdered tragacanth. 

IH-— Benzoin 10 av. ounces 

Charcoal 24 a v. ounces 

Potassium nitrate. 1 av. ounce 

Sassafras 2 ay. ounces 

Mucilage of acacia, sufficient. 
Mix the first four in tine powder, add 
the mucilage, form a mass, and make into 
conical pastilles, 

IV.— Potassium nitrate 875 grains 

Water 25 fluidounces 

Charcoal wood, 
powder 30 



Saturate the charcoal with the potas- 
sium nitrate dissolved in the water, dry 
the mass, powder, add the other ingre- 
dients, and mix thoroughly. Beat the 
mixture to ap'astic mass with the addi- 
tion of sufficient mucilage of tragacanth 
containing 2 per cent of saltpeter in 
solution, and form into cone-shaped 
pastilles. In order to evenly distribute 
the storax throughout the mass, it may 
be previously dissolved in a small amount 
of acetic ether. 

V. — Benzoin 2 av. ounces 

Cascarilla 1 av. ounce 

Myrrh . 1 av, ounce 

Potassium n i- 

trate i av. ounce 

Potassium chlo- 
rate 60 grains 

Charcoal, wood. 4 av. ounces 
Oil of cloves.. . . 1 fluidrachm 
Oil of cinnamon 1 fluidrachm 
Oil of lavender. 1 fluidrachm 
Mucilage of tragacanth, sufficient. 
Mix the first six ingredients previously 
reduced to fine powder, add the oils, and 
then incorporate enough mucilage to 
form a mass. Divide this into pastules 
weighing about 60 grains and dry. 



Tragacanth, pow- 
der 375 grains 

Storax 300 grains 

Benzoin 300 grains 

Vanillin 8 grains 

Coumarin 3 grains 

Musk 3 grains 

Civet 11 grains 

Oil of rose 20 drops 

Oil of bergamot. 15 drops 
Oil of ylang-ylang 10 drops 
Oil of rhodium.. 10 drops 
Oil of sandal 

wood 5 drops 

Oil of cinnamon. 5 drops 

Oil of orris 1 drop 

Oil of cascarilla. 1 drop 



av. ounces 



30 av. ounces 



300 grains 

U fluidounc 
300 "grains 
300 grains 
300 grains 



YL— Charcoal, pow- 
der • 

Potassium ni- 
trate J av ounce 

Water 33 fhndoun 

Tragacanth, 
powder. .... 

Tincture of 
benzoin 

Peru balsam . . 

Storax, crude.. 

Tolu balsam . - 

Oleo-balsamic idrachm9 

coTmX:::: sv-s 

Saturate the charcoal J^PjK 
sium nitrate d^olved in the 

dry, reduce to P°« d g' en ° the rema ming 
the tragacanth and tn tfae &dd 

ingredients, form a f tragacanth 

of sufficient muc -p f ^ 

SSSbfJ-K aod divide ,nt» p» 
tilles. 

Powdered nitrate of 

l ounce 

potassium •■■ 

Powdered gum war ^ ounce 

Powdered cascarilla 

bark (frech).-. * 
Powdered benzoin 
(fresh) 



VII. 



4 oun 



FURS— GARDENS, CHEMICAL 



Powdered charcoal. 7 ounces 
Oil of eucalyptus.. . 25 drops 

Oil of cloves 25 drops 

Water, a sufficiency. 
Make a smooth paste, press into molds 
and dry. 

FURS: 

To Clean Furs. —For dark furs, warm 
a quantity of new bran in a pan, taking 
care Unit it does not burn, to prevent 
which it must be briskly stirred. When 
well warmed rub it thoroughly into the 
fur with the hand. Repeat this 2 or 3 
times, then shake the fur, and give it 
another sharp rubbing until free from 
dust. For white furs: Lay them on a 
table, and rub well with bran made 
moist with warm water; rub until quite 
dry, and afterwards with dry bran. The 
wet bran should be put on with flannel, 
then dry with book muslin. Light furs, 
in addition to the above, should be well 
rubbed with magnesia or a piece of book 
muslin, after the bran process, against 
the way of the fur. 

To Preserve Furs. I, — Furs may be 
preserved from moths and other insects 
by placing a little colocynth pulp (bitter 
apple), or spice (cloves, pimento, etc.), 
wrapped in muslin, among them; or they 
may be washed in a very weak solution 
of eorrosLve sublimate in warm water 
(10 to 15 grains to the pint), and after- 
wards carefully dried. As well as every 
other species of clothing, they should be 
kept m a clean, dry place, from which 
tney should be taken out occasionally 
well beaten, exposed to the air, and re- 
turned. 

II.— Sprinkle the furs or woolen 
stuas, as well as the drawers or boxes in 
wnicn they are kept, with spirits of tur- 
pentine, the unpleasant scent of which 
will speedily evaporate on exposure of 
the stuffs to the air. Some persons 
place sheets of paper moistened with 
spirits of turpentine, over, under, or 
between pieces of cloth, etc., and find it 
a very effectual method. Manv woolen 
drapers put bits of camphor, th"e size of 

nt uarts 

of the shelves in their shops, and as they 
brush their cloths every 2, 3, or 4 
months, this keeps them free from moths; 
and this should be done in boxes where 
tfce turs. etc., are put. A tallow candle is 
requently put within each muff when 
lain by. bnuff or pepper is also good. 

FURNACE JACKET. 

• 4 P iecc of asbestos millboard— 10 
inches by 4 inches by § inch -is per- 



forated in about a dozen ™ 
with glycerined cork Ce£ T"* ^ 
about an inch from each short * T ked 
immersed in water until saturated ai ' d 
the board , s bent from the Zt t ^ 
angles and the perforated port ion i^H 
by bending it over a bottle will, i- Ped 
force as possible. The result 
a perforated arched tunnel rtb^ be 
narrow horizontal ledges at el<T S ? n 
Dry _th ls cover in the f urn^e aft Slde ' 
ting it m position, and pressing if «i? et " 
the supports. Three such co"^ ^ 5° 
mg 1 pound, replaced 24 fi re clav n g ^ 
weighing 13 pounds, and a higher 2? 
p^aturc was obtained thantitV^ 

A paste or mortar that will close 
cracks m furnaces to keep the gas from 
escaping can be made as follows £ 
together 75 parts of wet fireclay, 3 patg 
of black oxide manganese, 3 parts of 
white sand, and 1 part of powdered as- 
bestos. Thoroughly mix by adding 
enough water to make a smooth paste 
Apply this paste over the cracks and 
when dry it will be as hard as iron and 
Stick like glue. 

FURNITURE FOR GARDENS: 

To make imitation stone for outdoor 
furniture sundials, flower pots, etc., use: 
10 parts lime ; 12 parts rosin ; I part lin- 
seed oil. Dissolve ingredients thoroughly 
and apply the mixture while hot to the 
wood as a coating. The result will be 
attractive stone-like appearance that will 
last indefinitely. 

GAMBOGE STAIN: 

See Lacquers. 

GAPES IN POULTRY: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

GARANCINE PROCESS: 

See Dyes. 

GARDENS, CHEMICAL: 

See also Sponges. 

I. — Put some sand into a fish-globe or 
other suitable glass vessel to the depth of 

2 or 3 inches; in this place a few pieces of 
sulphate of copper, aluminum, and iron; 
pour over the whole a solution of sodium 
silicate (water glass), 1 part, and water, 

3 parts, care being taken not to disar- 
range the chemicals. Let this stand a 
week or so, when a dense growth of the 
silicates of the various bases used wiU t> e 
seen in various colors. Now displace 



GARDENS, CHEMICAL— GELATIN 



&69 



clear iSSSsKw small rubber tube 
water tnrtH^ ^ wa , er mll gradu . 

iDto j- lire the sodium silicate solution, 
ally dispw en not tQ ji aarrange or 

P'Vdo'vn the grovyth with the stream 
break ?"* j. u experimenting, ex- 
0 f %\.iter. a 1Al . „.;n „„ r . the 



rt lntion of the sodium silicate with 
water, by conveying a stream of 



th< 



of wfand expertness will enable 
P en£ ;Tor to produce a very pretty garden. 
° P TT ^This is a permanent chemical 
S' e 7 Which may be suspended by 
f t f chains with a lamp behind. 
br prepa c a small beaker or jar full of 
^ saturated solution of Glauber s salt, 
° I ?nto the solution suspend by means 
^threads a kidney bean and a non-por- 
° , "body, such as a marble, stone g ass, 
g Cover the jar, and in a short time 
there will be seen radiating from the 
lean ^all crystals of sulphate of sodium 
which will increase and gl yc the bean 
he aspect of a sea urchin while the non- 
porous body remains untouched. Ihe 
HZ appear to have a special partiality 
for the crystals, which is due to the ab- 
sorption of water by the bean, but not of 
the salt In this way a supersaturated 
solution is formed in the immediate 
neighborhood of the bean, and the crys- 
tals, in forming, attach themselves to its 
surface, 

HI. — A popular form of ornamental 
crystallization is that obtained by im- 
mersing a zinc rod in a solution of a lead 
salt, thus obtaining the "lead tree. lo 
prepare this, dissolve lead acetate m 
water, add a few drops of nitric acid, and 
then suspend the zinc rod in the solution. 
The lead is precipitated in large and 
■ beautiful plates until the solution is ex- 
hausted or the zinc dissolved. _ In this 
case the action is electro-chemical, the 
fiTst portions of the lead precipitated 
forming with the zinc a voltaic arrange- 
ment of sufficient power to decompose 
the salt. 

It is said that by substituting chloride 
of tin for the lead salt a"tin tree" may be 
produced, while nitrate of silver under 
the same conditions would produce a 
"silver tree." In the latter case dis- 
tilled water should be used to. prevent 
precipitation of the silver_ by possible 
impurities contained in ordinary water. 

GAS FIXTURES: 

See Brass. 

GAS FIXTURES, BRONZING OE; 

See Plating. 

*AS SOLDERING: 

See Soldering. 



GAS-STOVES, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, 

GAS TRICK: 

See Pyrotechnics. 

GEAR LUBRICANT: 
See Lubricants. 



GELATIN: 

French Gelatin.— Gelatin is derive 
from two sources, the parings of skins 
hides, etc., and from bones. The latte 
are submitted to the action of dilut 
hydrochloric acL for several days, whie 
attacks the inorganic matters — car 
bonates, phosphates, etc., and leaves th 
ossein, which is, so to say, an isomer 01 
the skin substance. The skin, parings 
of hide, etc., gathered from the shambles, 
butcher shops, etc., arc brought into the 
factory, and if not ready for immediate 
use are thrown into quicklime, which 
preserves them for the time being. From 
the lime, after washing, they pass into 
dilute acid, which removes the last traces 
of lime, and arc now ready for the treat- 
ment that is to furnish the pure gelatin. 
The ossein from bones goes through the 
same stages of treatment, into lime, washed 
and laid in dilute acid again. From the 
acid bath the material goes into baths ot 
water maintained at a temperature not 
higher than from 175° to 195 F- 

^he gelatin manufacturer buys from 
the button-makers and manufacturers 
of knife handles and bone articles gen- 

nish the strongest glue. Tie parings 
skin, hide etc., ere from tojj* 
S^SM^SSi. the heeds, 

Paris, who get it directly i Ae 

toirs, which is S^hAJhealthy, 

material is g ua ™S s are under rigid 
since these insti utmns^^ rf govern . 

inspection and sur 

ment inspectors ana ug(jd ex _ 

There is a. gelatin or J nte r S 
elusively for ^%%fZUiU called 
and ceiling makers f b . 

rabbit vermicfi,^ ^ eatme nt of these 
bit skins. As the br sx me rcury 
skins is to saturate the ^ ^ ^ prod . 



To Clarify Solutions of Gelatin, Glues, 
etc. — If 1 per cent of ammonium fluoride 
be added to turbid solutions of gelatin or 
common glue, or, in fact, of any gums, 
it quickly clarifies them. It causes a dep- 
osition of ligneous matter, and also very 
materially increases the adhesive power 
of such solutions. 

Air Bubbles in Gelatin. — The pres- 
ence of minute air bubbles in cakes of 
commercial gelatin often imparts to 
ihem an unpleasant cloudy appearance. 
These minute air bubbles are the result 
of the rapid, continuous process of drying 
the sheets of gelatin Dj a counter-cur- 
rent of hot air. Owing to the rapid 
drying a hard shin is formed on the out- 
side of the cake, leaving a central layer 
from which the moisture escapes only 
•with' difficulty, and in which the air bub- 
bles remain behind. Since the best qual- 
ities of gelatin dry most rapidly, the 
presence of these minute bubbles is, to a 
certain extent, an indication of supe- 
riority, and they rarely occur in the poorer 

aualities of gelatin. If dried slowly in 
le old way gelatin is liable to be dam- 
aged by fermentation ; in such cases large 
bubbles of gas are formed in the sheets, 
and are a sign of bad quality. 

GEMS, ARTIFICIAL: 

See also Diamonds. 
The raw materials for the production 
of artificial gems are the finest silica and, 
as a rule, finely ground rock crystals; 
white sand and quartz, which remain 
pure white even at a higher temperature, 
may also be used. 

< Artificial borax is given the preference, 
since the native variety frequently con- 
tains substances which color the glass. 
Lead carbonate or red lead must be per- 
fectly pure and not contain any protoxide, 
since the latter gives the glass a dull' 
greenish hue. White lead and red lead 
nave to dissolve completely in dilute nitric 
acid or without leaving a residue; the so- 
lution, neutralized as much as possible, 
must not be reddened by prussiate of pot- 
*i? i tiie former case t:n is present, in 
tne latter copper. Arsenious acid and salt- 
peter must be perfectly pure; they serve 
ior the destruction of the organic sub- 
stances. ^ The materials, without the col- 
oring oxide, furnish the starting quantity 
for the production of artificial gems; such 
glass pastes are named "strass." 

I he emerald, a precious stone of green 
color, is imitated by melting 1,000 parts 
A JiT a - SS , and 8 P arts of chromic oxide, 
Artincial emeralds are also obtained 
witn cupnc acid and ferric oxides, con- 



sisting of 43.84 parts of rooV 

21.98 parts of dry sodium earb?^** 

parts of calcined and powderS i l ? 7,2 

7.2 parts of red lead; 

peter; 1 21 parts of red ferrE^ 

0.6 parts of green copper carbona* " d 

Agates are imitated by allowSH *' 
ments of variously colored pastes! fl g * 
together, and stlrx-ir.™ e ° tQ flow 



The amethyst is iraitntprl k„ - . 
300 parts of a glass frit with 0 J £gj 
gray manganese ore, or from 300 parH 
frit containing 0.8 per cent of m£5$ 
oxide, 36.5 parts of saltpeter , 15 pX^ 
borax, and 15 parts of minium (redWrff 
A handsome amethyst is obtained f 
melting together 1,000 parts of strain 
parts of manganese oxide, 5 part If 
cobalt oxide, and 2 parts of gold p u P lr 
Latterly, attempts have ahj hit 
made to produce very hard glasses fZ 
imitation stones fro^m aluS and 
borax with the requisite coloring agent" 
Besides imitation stones there are also 
produced opaque glass pastes bearing the 
name of the stones they resemble, e a 
aventunnc, azure-stone (lapis lazuli)' 
chrysoprase, turquoise, obsidian, etc' 
1'or these, especially pure materials, as 
belonging to the most important ingre- 
dients of glassy bodies, are used, and 
certain quantities of red lead and boras 
are also added. 

GEM CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives, undei Jewelers' Ce- 
ments. 

GERMAN SILVER: 

See Alloys. 

GERMAN SILVER SOLDERS: 

See Solders. 

GILDING: 

See Paints, Plating, and Varnishes. 

GILDING GLASS: 

See Glass. 

GILDING, TO CLEAN; 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meih= 
ods. 

GILDING, RENOVATION OF: 

See Cleaning Compounds. 

GILDING SUBSTITUTE: 

See Plating. 

GILT, TEST POR: 
See Gold. 

GILT WORK, TO BURNISH: 

See Gold, 



GLASS 



871 



Glass 



GLASS GRINDING FLUID: 

Turpentine « 

Camphor'':..'-' 30 grams 

Moisten the glass with the fluid and 
ad d powdered emery as needed. 

Uent Glass.-This was formerly used 
I r Pnspa - its use m store fronts is 
t& »o« and more familiar, large 
Xs being bent for this purpose. It is 
K uch used in the construction of dwell- 
in windows, or rounded corners, 
Sffii towers; in coach fronts and m 
rounded front china closets Either plain 
g££ «■ beveled glass may be bent, and to 

an The r numr.er of molds required in a 
glass-bending establishment is large. 

The bending is done in a kiln. Wass 
melts at 2,300° F,; the heat employed in 
bending is 1,S0G°F. No pyrometer would 
stand long in that heat, so the beat of 
the kiln is judged from the color of the 
flame and other indications, bmaller 
pieces of glass are put into the molds in 
the kilns with forks made for the purpose. 
The great molds used for bending large 
sheets of glass are mounted on cars, that 
may be rolled in and out of kilns. 1 he 
glass is laid upon the top of the mold or 
cavity, and is bent by its own weight. 
As it is softened by the heat it sinks into 
the mold and so is bent. It may take 
an hour or two to bend the glass, which 
is then left in the kiln from 24 to 36 hours 
to anneal and cool. Glass of any kind 
or size is put into the kilns in its finished 
state; the great heat to which it is sub- 
jected does not disturb the polished sur- 
face. Despite every precaution more 
ot less glass is broken in bending. Bent 
glass costs about 50 per cent more than 
tho flat. 

The use of bent glass is increasing, 
and there are 4 or 5 glass-bending estab- 
lishments in the United States, of which 
one is in the East. 

Colored Glass. — R. Zsigmondy has 
taade some interesting experiments m 
coloring glass with metallic sulphides, 
such as molybdenite, and sulphides or 
antimony, copper, bismuth, and nickel, 
■bests made with batches of 20 to 40 
Pounds and with a heat not too great, give 
good results as follows: 

Sand, 65 parts; potash, 15 parts; soda, 



5 parts; lime, 0 parts; molybdenite, S 
parte ; sulphide of sodium, 2 parts, 
(lark reddish-brown glass. In t 
layers this glass appeared light bra Wh 
yellow. Flashed with opal, it became a 
smutty black brown. 

Sand 50 parts; potash, 15 parts; soda, 
5 parts; lime, 9 parts; molybdenite, 1 part 
sulphide of sodium, 2 parts, gave a yello 
glass. 

Sand, lOparts; potash, 3.3 parts; sod 
0.27 parts; lime, 1.64 parts; molybdeni 
0.03 parts, gave a reddish-yellow 
with a fine tinge of red. 

Sand, 100 parts; potash, 26 parts; sod 
108 parts; lime, 12 parts; sulphide of cop- 
per, 1.7 parts; sulphide of sodium, 2.8 
parts, gave a dark-brown color, varying 
from sepia to sienna, In thick layers it 
was no longer transparent, but still clear 
and unclouded. When heated this glass 
became smutty black brown and clouded. 

A fine copper red was obtained from 
sand, 10 parts; potash, 3 parts; lime, 1.8 
parts; soda, 0.25 parts; sulphide of cop- 
per, 7.5 parts; sulphide of sodium, 10.5 
parts; borax, 9.5 parts. 

Attempts to color with sulphides of 
antimony and bismuth failed. But the 
addition of 7 per cent of sulphide of 
nickel to an ordinary batch gave a glass 
of fine amethyst color. 

Coloring Electric-Light Bulbs and 
Globes.— Two substances suggest them- 
selves as excellent vehicles of color, and 
both water soluble— water glass (po- 
tassium or yodium silicate) and gelatin. 
For Sting, water-solub e 
should be tried. The thickness _ of the 
so^tion must be a matter o expennnenta- 
tion Prior to dipping the globes tney 
should be made as free as possible from 
all grease dirt etc. The g ^ 
tion should not be so i the 
appreciable ayer -of it ; 
surface of the «^_ dTying material 



surf a 

Rose-Tint G^-^mum 
coloring glass 



is now 
Rose-tinted 



uscd for e?°™fe^emumair*to 
glass is made by aua nj, lting pot . 

I the ingredier its * ^ m 

By mi^fijf^ C Jl This process 



orange red is pr^ u — he reheating of 
is stated not to requ ire ^ ^ 

* he gl t"ure d a si fthf ordinary process 
3 making red glass. 

SHAPING- GLASS. be . 



GLASS 



common string in alcohol and squeeze 
it reasonably dry. Then tie the string 
tightly around the glass on the line of 
cutting. t Touch a match to the string 
and let it burn off. The heat of the 
burning string will weaken the glass in 
this particular place. While it is hot 
plunge the glass under water, Jetting the 
arm go well under to the elbow, so there 
will be no vibration when the glass is 
struck. With the free hand strike the 
glass outside the line of cutting, giving a 
quick, sharp stroke with a stick of wood, 
a long-bladed knife, or the like, and the 
cut will be as clean and straight as if 
made by a regular glass cutter. 

The same principle may be employed 
to cut bottles into vases, and to form all 
sorts of pretty things, such as jewelry 
boxes, picture panes, trays, small tablets, 
windows for a doll house, etc. 

II. — Scratch the glass around the 
shape you desire with the corner of a file 
or graver; then, having bent a piece of 
wire into the same shape, heat it red hot 
and lay it upon the scratch and sink the 
glass into cold water just deep enough 
for the water to come almost on a level 
with its upper surface. It will rarely 
fail to break perfectly true. 

To Cut Glass Under Water.— It is 
possible to cut a sheet of glass roughly 
to any desired shape with an ordinary 
pair of scissors, if the operation be per- 
formed under water. Of course, a 
smooth edge cannot be obtained by such 
means, but it will be found satisfactory. 

Drilling, Shaping, and Filing Glass.— 
lake any good piece of steel wire, 
hie to the shape of a drill, and then hold 
it m a flame till it is at a dull red heat; 
then quench in metallic mercury. A 
piece of good steel, thus treated, will bore 
through glass almost as easily as through 
soft brass. In use, lubricate with oil of 
turpentine in which camphor has been 
dissolved. When the point of the drill 
has touched the other side put the glass 
m water, and proceed with the drilling 
very slowly. If not possible to do this", 
reverse the work— turn the glass over 
and drill, very carefully, from the op- 
posite side. By proceeding with care 
you can easily drill three holes through 
glass Vfe inch thick ^ of an inch apart 
In making the drill be careful not to make 
the point and the cutting edges too acute, 
l he drill cuts more slowly, but more safe- 
ly, when the point and cutting edges are 
at a low angle. 

To Make Holes in Thin Glass.— To 
produce holes in panes of thin or weak 



glass, provide the places to be p er f ora 
with a ring of moist loam, whose S 
leaves free a portion of c] aS a ..Ir - 
size of the desired hnli 5 I eXat % th e 



center 

size of" the dWd VoleT "iSH^'fi 
lead into the ring, and the clas/^i eQ 
will fall through at once ^Thi« d 

- uJlT- P r °ce 3s 
the 



glass Se<1 Upon ° the ra P^' ueating P of Ce * 



To Grind Glass.— For the gri n dir, w * 
glass, iron, or steel laps and £2 ? °f 
are first used; after that, the sand £** 
placed by emery. Then the polk?/ 
is started with pure lead or pure tin 1 8 
and finished with willow wood laps TH?' 
polishing powder is tin putty, but p er ° 
oxide of iron or dioxide of tin i s a £ 
polishing medium. fe Q 

Pohl asserts that if glass is polish^ 
with crocus (Paris red) it appears of 1 
dark or a yellowish-brown tint. He con 
tends that the crocus enters the pores of 
the glass, and, to prevent this, he uses 
zinc white with the most satisfactory 
results. 1 

A Home -Made Outfit for Grinding 
Glass. — Provide two pieces of cork, one 
concave and one convex (which may be 
cut to shape after fitting to the lathe). 
Take a copper cent or other suitable 
article and soft-solder a screw to fit the 
lathe, and then wax it to the cork; get a 
cheap emery wheel, such as is used on 
sewing machines. Polish the edge on 
thezinc collar of the emery wheel (or use 
a piece of zinc). The other cork should 
be waxed to a penny and centered. 
Spectacle lenses may be cut on the same 
emery wheel if the wheel is attached to 
the lathe so as to revolve. Another 
method is to take a common piece of 
window glass (green glass is the best) 
and make a grindstone of that, using the 
flat surface for grinding. Cement it on 
a large chuck, the glass being from 2 to 
2} inches in diameter. 

To Drill Optical Glass. — A graver 
sharpened to a long point is twisted 
between the fingers, and pressed against 
the glass, the point being moistened 
from time to time with turpentine. 
When the hole is finished half way, the 
drilling should be commenced from the 
other side. The starting should be be- 
gun with care, as otherwise the graver 
is likely to slide out and scratch the lens. 
It is advisable to mark the point of drill- 
ing with a diamond, and not to appiy 
too great a pressure when twisting « e 
graver. 

Lubricants for Glass Drilling.— I- 7" 
Put garlic, chopped in small pieces, 1OT0 
spirit of turpentine and agitate the mix- 



GLASS 



873 



, „ nl time to time. Filter at the end 
turef' 0 ™ ^ - t an a w h.en you desire to 
° f a i0 Sf& dip your bit or drill into 
^Sfflf tSdng care to moisten it 
tilS . Wvto prevent the drill, etc., from 
cons tan j^j 

be ^ ml p]'iceVlittle alum in acetic acid, 



~ tt l' lace a ui«*- T , i. 

• „r drill into this and put a di 
5 P /on the spot where the glass is to 
pierced. 



drop 

be 



in one form or another. The formulas 
tor various kinds of bottle glass, -which 
indicate the general composition of 
almost all glasses, are: 



for Ordinary Molde 



^tl Parts 



ttLDING GLASS. 

When it is desired to gild glass for 
. _,ti ve purposes use a solution of 
d Tt n in hot water, to which an equal 
Entity of alcohol has been added 
SffSw to be gilded is covered with 
I5f solution and the gold leaf put on 
Se wet A sheet oE soft cotton must 
L irelsed and smoothed over the leaf 
nntS the gelatin below is evenly distrib- 
rifed This prevents spots in gilding. 
Careful apportionment of the gelatin is 

may become spotted; if too little, the 
b Sing may be too weak to allow the 
& to be polished. The glass should 
| cleaned thoroughly before gilding. 

After the gold l eaf is P ut on the . whoie 
U> Slowed S to dry for 10 or SO minutes, 
when the luster of the gold can be raised 
by a cautious rubbing with cotton. 1 Hen 
another layer of gelatin is spread on with 
one stroke of a soft brush, and, if espe- 
cially good work be required, a second 
layer of gold is put on and covered as 
before. In this ease, however, the gela- 
tin is used hot. After the gilding has 
become perfectly dry the letters or orna- 
mentation are drawn and the surplus 
gold around th e edges is taken oft . I h e 
gilding docs not become thoroughly fixed 
until after several months, and until then 
rough handling, washing, etc., should be 
avoided. T . 

The best backing for glass gilding is 
asphaHurn, with a little lampblack, tins 
to be mixed up with elastic varnish; 
outside finishing varnish is the best, as 
the addition of this material gives dur- 
ability. 

GLASS MANUFACTURING : 

See also Ceramics. 

The blue tint of the common poison 
bottle is got by the addition of black 
oxide of cobalt to the molten glass; the 
green tint of the actinic glass bottle is 
obtained in the same way by the ad- 
dition of potassium bichromate, which 
is reduced to the basylous condition, and 
the amber tint is produced by the ad- 
dition of impure manganese dioxide, a 
superior tint being produced by supnur 



Parts 
weight. 



White Glass 
Bottles.— 

Sand 

Lime 

Carbonate of sodium... 231 . y . 

Nitrate of sodium 5 J wei g ht - 

White Flint Glass Containing Lead. 

Sand 63 

Lime 5 

Carbonate of sodium .... 21 

Nitrate of sodium. 3 

Red lead 8. 

Ordinary Green Glass for Dispensing 

Bottles. — 

Sand... 63] Parts 

Carbonate of sodium .... 26 J- by 

Lime nj weight. 

A mixture for producing a good green 
flint glass is much the same as that for 
the ordinary white flint glass, except that 
the lime, instead of being the purest, is 
ordinary slaked lime, and the sodium 
nitrate is omitted. Sand, lime, and 
sodium carbonate are the ordinary bases 
of glass, while the sodium nitrate is the 
decolorizing agent. 

Glass Refractory to Heat.— Fine sand, 
70 parts; potash, 30 parts; kaolin, 26 
parts. 

Transparent Ground Glass. -Take hold 
r,f crlass bY one corner with an 

it of fire tongs. Hold it in 
TroToI^r fire, and heat to about 
?8° F or just hot enough to be he d 

T^«S4e9s dry-plate negative var- 
photograpber a aryv h 

rush. l"tt ne g ^ , then drain back 
spreads over it evenly, then ara 
tne surplus varnish into the DOtus ^ 
one corner of the glass 



luc M ^ lass 
rnfront of the fire ^£&»£1S 

sis? 

glass should not be made to ^ 

fhe varnish is put ^f^hod answers 

not ^^lo^'self -made magic-lantern 
Tery well tor f^ 1 , maV be made 

ITpK dfppea i !?!«■*» or glycer.ne. 
WATBR-TIGHT GU*. 



S74 



GLASS 



of iron, are extremely difficult to keep 
■water-tight, as the iron expands and 
contracts with atmospheric changes. 
To nieet this evil, it is necessary to use 
an elastic putty, which follows the vari- 
ations of the iron. A good formula is: 
Two parts rosin and one part tallow, 
melted together and stirred together 
thoroughly with a little minium. This 
putty is applied hot upon strips of linen 
r cotton cloth, on top and below, and 
these are pasted while the putty is still 
warm, with one edge on the iron ribs and 
the other, about one-fourth inch broad, 
over the glass. 

Tightening Agent for Acid Receptacles. 
■ — Cracked vessels of glass or porcelain, 
or use in keeping acids, can be made 
ight by applying a cement prepared in 
e following manner: Take finely sifted 
and, some asbestos with short fiber, a 
ttle magnesia and add enough con- 
entrated water glass to obtain a readily 
kneadable mass. The acid renders the 
putty firm and waterproof, 

PENCILS FOR MARKING GLASS; 

See also Etching and Frosted Glass. 

Crayons for Writing on Glass.— I.— 
The following is a good formula: 

Spermaceti 4 parts 

Tallow 3 parts 

2 parts 

Red Ie ? d 6 parts 

Fotassmm carbonate. 1 part 

Melt the spermaceti, tallow, and wax 
together over a slow fire, and when 
melted stir in, a little at a time, the 
potassium carbonate and red lead, previ- 
ously well mixed. Continue the heat for 
WM/l f mmu }™> stirring constantly. 
Withdraw from the source of heat, and let 
cool down somewhat, under constant stir- 
ring, at the temperature of about 180° F • 
before the mixture commences to set' 
pour off into molds and let cool TJip 
latter may be made of bits of glass tubinj 
of convenient diameter and length 
After the mixture cools, drive the crayons 
out by means of a rod that d«*3yfi£ 
the diameter of the tubes. ' 

aT ,?'T-T- ake sul P ha te of copper, I par t 

Z hltl A g > 1 ? art ^duce these P to a 
fine powder and mix with water- nevt 

*JL W paste into the shape of cr'ayon 
and let dry. When it is desired to write 
wipe thf ^ n8 f ° f these cra yons anf 
reappear breathe on the glass, 
parts 7^ elt « to S etter > spermaceti, 3 

When me Ued ffif& ^ ^ 2 P aW 
naeuecl stlr ln 6 parts of minium 



and 1 part of caustic pota<d ^ 
heating for SO minutes, then „ C ° n ti ftu . 
able molds. When formed" ^ 
be put away dust them with 

each pencil £ _ lc Pow- 



der, or roll 



powder. 

PREVENTION OF 



iEVENTION OF porrtKm 
MING, AND CLOUDING 5 D ^ 



I.— Place a few flat s]a.^\ 
with cak-ium 



dishes 
window, 
sorbs all 
contents 



This substance 
moisture from the 
the dishes have 



of 



lain 

1X1 each 
ea Serly g 

to h e 



newed every 2 or 3 days ' a „j X be re " 
calcium chloride rigorously drie I l?° ist 
upon it may be used over again ' W 

II. — Apply to the inside face „f «. 
glass a thin layer of glycerine Aft 
does not permit the vapor to depo" it i 
hne drops and thus obstruct Z tu 
Double glass may also be used. 

way the heat of the inside is no i„ A A 
contact with the cold outside 

III. — By means of the finger sli»htl, 
moistened apply a film of soTp 0 ?S 

this off with a clean, dry doth; the 
mirror will be as bright and clear as ever- 
breathing on it will not affect its clear- 
ness, 

. IV.— Window glass becomes dull dur- 
ing storage by reason of the presence of 
much alkali. This can be avoided by 
taking sand, 1G0 parts; calcined sodium 
sulphate, 75; powdered marble, 50; and 
coke, 4 to 5 parts. About 3 parts of the 
sodtum sulphate may be replaced bv an 
equal quantity of potash. 

FROSTED GLASS. 

!■ — A frosted appearance may be 



given to glass by covering it with a 
mixture of 

Magnesium sulphate. 6" ounces 

Dextrin bounces 

Water 20 ounces 

_ When this solution dries, the magne- 
sium sulphate crystallizes in fine needles. 

IL— Another formula directs a strong 
solution of sodium or magnesium sul- 
phate, applied warm, and afterwards 
coated with a thin solution of acacia. 

III. — A more permanent "frost" nutf 
he put on the glass by painting witO 
white lead and oil, either smooth or i« 
stipple effect. The use of lead acetate 
with oil gives a more pleasing eflect, 
perhaps, than the plain white Je*d. ( 

IV. — If still greater permanency « 
desired, the glass may be ground 
rubbing with some gritty substance- 



GLASS 



375 



« For a temporary frosting, d p a 
V * t flat marble into glass cutter s 
P iece ° nfi moistened with water; rub 
^ arP the glass, dipping frequently in 
ove r tue & teT If the frosting is re- 

sa -,f very 'fine. fi nish off with em Z r l 
quired t« / logc ther a strong, hot 

a» d ; v 7 0 f Epsom salt and a clear solu- 

S -° |U "of K um arabic; apply warm Or 

tlD11 Vtronff solution of sodium sulphate, 

^ and when cool, wash with gum 

warm ' Or daub the glass with a lump 



tor Or dauu me gi<wj » ■ r 

Skier's putty, carefully and uniform- 
? untU the surface is equally covered. 
|bis is an excellent imitation of ground 



By using colored glass, a pattern in 
half-tint may be made on tL colored 
ground and after decorating white glass, 
the back may be silvered or gilded. 

Engraving, Matting, and Frosting.— 
Cover the glass with a layer of wax or of 
varnish on which the designs are traced 
with a graver or pen-point; next, hydro- 
fluoric acid is poured on the tracings. 
This acid is very dangerous to handle, 
while the following process, though fur- 



\j until 

Ssfaad ITnot' di^Turbed by rain or 
damp- 

yj —This imitates ground glass: 
Sandarac H ounces 

Mastic 01 ^ 0UnCe 

Ether Jf ounces 

Benzine 16 to IS ounces^ 

VII —Take white lead ground in a mix- 
ture of I varnish and \ oil of turpentine, 
to which burnt white vitriol and white 
sugar of lead are added for drier. The 
paint must be prepared exceedingly thin 
and applied to the glass evenly, using 
a broad brush. If the windows require 
a new coat, the old one is nrst removed 
by the use of a strong lye, or else apply 
a mixture of hydrochloric acid, 2 parts; 
vitriol, 2 parts; copper sulphate, 1 part'» 
and gum arabic 1 part, by means of a 
brush. The production of this imitation 
frosting entails little expense and is of 
special advantage when a temporary use 
of the glass is desired. 

VIII.— A little Epsom salt (sulphate of 
magnesia) stirred in beer with a small 
dose of dextrin and applied on the panes 
by means of a sponge or a brush permits 
of obtaining mat panes. 

Hoarfrost Glass.— The feathery foams 
traced by frost on the inside of the 
windows in cold weather may be imitated 
as Follows: 

The surface is first ground either by 
sand-blast or the ordinary method, and 
is then covered with a sort of varnish. 
On being dried either in the sun or by 
artificial heat, the varnish contracts 
strongly, taking with it the particles of 
glass to which it adheres; and as the con- 
traction takes places along definite lines, 
the pattern given by the removal of the 
particles of glass resembles very closely 
the branching crystals of frostwork. A 



„^ t „ „^ i™ u ,Mag process, though fur- 
nishing the same results, does not present 
this drawback: Take powdered fluoride 
of lime, 1 part, and sulphuric acid, 2 parts. 
Make a homogeneous paste, which is 
spread on the parts reserved for the 
engraving or frosting. At the end of 
S or 4 hours wash with water to remove 
the acid, next with alcohol to take off 
the varnish, or with essence of turpen- 
tine if wax has been employed for stop- 
ping off. 

To Render Window Panes Opaque.— 
I. — Panes may be rendered mat and 
non-transparent by painting them on one 
side with a liquid prepared by grinding 
whiting with potash water-glass solution. 
After one or two applications, the panes 
are perfectly opaque, while admitting the 
light. 

II.— Paint the panes with a solution of 



i »c oranching crystals ot trosi 
81 *ifde coat gives a small, delicate effect, 
*mle a thick film, formed by putting on 
2 > 3 or more coats, contracts so strongly 
as to produce a large and bold design. 



Dextrin 200 \ 

Zinc vitriol 800 I 



Parts 

by- 



Bitter salt n 300 I wei g at 

In water 2,000 J 

HI —For deadening panes alreadyset 

while, stfi 

added to the wax solution, 
factories, and work ops 



)rieS and wo -^tine, add some 
dissolved m ° d a quicker 



dryer anu *<"'",-"•„„ After the win- 

drying and harder i ng. Afr 
d0<w pane has be dab b ed 

mixture on tne wa dding. T 



* A J t —Cover witn a 

Frosted M^ 0 "'"^!^ in stale beer; 
solution of B£«m »lt « i « fi t 

apply * lth , a n s S dry- ° n dryin £' ^ 

wiping it dean and ary. ^ d . 

Epsom salt cystal^es,gi ^ 
J m * frosted effects D d dftyfl 



some 
must 



not 



576 



GLASS 



when the glass is liable to be damp, for 
in that case the effect will be a blurred 
one. When it is desirable to remove 
the coating, lukewarm water will serve 
the purpose without damage to the 
luster of the mirror. 

II. — The following mixture, when 
applied to a mirror and left to dry, will 
form in many shapes, all radiating from 
a focus, this focus forming anywhere on 
the glass, and when all dry tends to form 
a most pleasing object to the eye. 

Sour ale 4 ounces 

Magnesium sulphate. 1 ounce 
Put on the mirror with a small, clean 
sponge and let dry. It is now ready 
for the artist, and he may choose his own 
colors and subject. 

Crystalline Coatings or Frostwork on 
Glass or Paper. — Dissolve a small quan- 
tity of dextrin (gum arabic and trag- 
acanth are not so suitable) in aqueous 
salt solution as concentrated as possible, 
for instance, in sulphate of magnesia 
(bitter salt), sulphate of zinc or any 
other readily crystallizing salt; filter the 
solution through white blotting paper 
and coat glass panes uniformly thin with 
the clear filtrate, using a fine, broad 
badger brush; leave them lying at an 
ordinary medium temperature about one- 
quarter hour in a horizontal position. 

As the water slowly evaporates during 
this short time, handsome crystalline 
patterns, closely resembling frostwork, 
will develop gradually on the glass panes, 
which adhere so firmly to the glass or the 
paper (if well-sized glazed paper had 
been used) that they will not rub off 
easily. They can be permanently fixed 
by a subsequent coat of alcoholic shellac 
solution. 

Especially handsome effects are pro- 
duced with colored glass panes thus 
treated, and m the case of reflected light 
by colored paper. 

For testing crystals as regards their 
optical behavior, among others their 
behavior to polarized light, it is sufficient 
r i pl t\ 1T a solutio11 of collodion wool 
(soluble peroxide lime for the prepara- 
tion of collodion) over the surface of 
glass with the crystalline designs, and to 
P n , e dr y collodion fil m care- 
jW- , If thls ls done cautiously it is not 
difficult to lift the whole crystalline 
group from the glass plate and to in- 
corporate it with the glass-like, thin 
collodion film. 

REMOVING WINDOW FROST. 

Here are fourteen methods of prevent- 
ing frost on windows, arranged in the 



ing 



ent 
sul- 



order of their efficacy : \ F\ &mp 
hoi lamp; 2, sulphuric acid- Q Ilal00 ' 
ammonia; 4, glycerine; 5, aq u ' a Z aqua 
hydrochloric acid; 7, ben^e R H la; 6 > 
oaic acid; 9, boric acid: 10 a ]°i Wri- 
mtac add; 12 cobalt' nit'ra t^f : I*, 
fusion of nutgalls; H, tincture of X 

(which, of course, has to be hanrfi V^P 
great care) the results are iSSf^ 
and the effect more nearly ZZ^' 
than by any other methods T? 
phunc acid application is made with" 
cotton cloth swab, care beW u! a 
to allow any dripping, and S so w M 
other acids. The effect of thl , 
ammonia is almost instantaneous Umu* 
window is frosted again in 
With the glycerine there are very S 
results-but slight stains on the 4K 
which may be easily removed. 

The instructions for glycerine are- 
Dissolve 2 ounces of glycerine in 1 quar i 
pt 62 per cent alcohol containing to 
improve the odor, some oil of amber 
When the mixture clarifies it is rubbed 
over- the inner surface of the glass. This, 
it is claimed, not only prevents the 
formation of frost, but also 
sweating. 



prevents 



To Prevent Dimming of Eyeglasses, 
etc.— Mix olein-potash soap with about 
3 per cent of glycerine and a little oil 
turpentine. Similar mixtures have also 
been recommended for polishing physi- 
cians' reflectors, show-windows, etc., to 
prevent dimming. 

WRITING ON GLASS: 

See also Etching and Inks. 

Composition for Writing on Glass,— 
To obtain mat designs on glass, take 
sodium fluoride, 35 parts; potassium sul- 
phate, 7 parts; zinc chloride, 15 parts: 
hydrochloric acid, 65 parts; distilled 
water, 1,000 parts. Dissolve the sodium 
fluoride and the potassium sulphate in 
half the water; dissolve the zinc chloride 
in the remaining water and add the 
hydrochloric acid. Preserve these two 
solutions separately. For use, mix a 
little of each solution and write on 
glass with a pen or brush. 

Ink for Writing on Glass. — 

Shellac 20 parts 

Alcohol 150 parts 

Borax 35 parts 

Water 250 parts 

Water-soluble dve sufficient 
color. 

Dissolve the shellac in the alcohol, the 
borax in the water, and pour the sneliac 



the 



to 



GLASS— GLAZES 



377 



. ,. n =i 0 wly into that o! the borax. 
£?. »dd" the coloring matter previously 
£oUd in a little water. 

TTASS SUBSTITUTE 
GL (Duro-Glass): 

Celluloid scrap ..... 8 to 4 ounces 

Acetone 1 <l uart 

tt« p scrap celluloid such as can be had 
fr0 L m automobile repair shops, film ex- 
i ^<res or other users of celluloid. 
„ t tlie celluloid into small pieces, 
5? c f* a m£on jar and Ml the jar with 
£tone. Screw the top on tight to pre- 
™>nt evaporation. • 

Acetone is very inflammable, so keep it 
away from open flame and sparks of any 
kind Set iar in a cool place and shake 
ft frequently for about 24 hours, after 
which the celluloid should be dissolved. 
The mixture when complete, should be 
about the consistency of ordinary mixed 
mint If it is too thick, add more ace- 
tone It may be colored, if desired, by 
adding a little aniline dye and blending 
thoroughly. 

To apply the coating use ordinary un- 
painted wire window screening. # 

Do work if possible in the open air to 
allow fumes to escape. Pour solution in 
a trough, wood or metal, long enough to 
accommodate width of screen, run screen 
through solution slowly, holding the 
screen that has been immersed upright 
so it will drain off surplus solution back 
into tank. If the solution is of proper 
consistency work will turn out perfectly. 

When mixture starts to dry it appears 
dirty and greasy, but after it is thor- 
oughly dry the surface will clear up and 
each square will he filled with a thin cel- 
luloid film. After it is dry the Duro- 
Glass may be cut, rolled and tacked m 
place, the same as before the screen was 
treated. It is used for sun parlors, sum- 
taer camps, sleeping porches, barns, poul- 
try houses, greenhouses, etc. 

Glazes 

(See also Ceramics, Enamels, Paints, 
and Varnishes.) 

Glazes for Cooking Vessels. — Melt a 
"it of red lead, 22.9 parts (by weight); 
crystallized boracic acid, SI parts; 
enamel soda, 42,4 parts; cooking salt, 10 
Parts; gravel, 12 parts; Feldspar, 8 parts. 
According to the character of the clay, 
this frit is mixed with varying quantities 
° f sand, feldspar and kaolin, in the 
following manner; 



Frit. 



.84 



lazes are 



86. 



6.5 6., 



Red lead 1.5 15 

Gravel 8 6 

Feldspar g 

Kaolin, burnt .6.5 6.5 

Glazes which are produced without 
addition of red lead to the frit, are pre- 
pared as follows. Melt a frit of the 
following composition: Red lead, 22,9 
parts (by weight); boracic acid in 
crystals, 24.8 parts; enamel soda, 37.1 
parts; calcined potash, 6.9 parts; cook- 
ing salt, 10 parts; chalk, 10 parts; gravel, 
12 parts; feldspar, 8 parts. 

From the frit the following gh 
prepared; 

Frit 86.5 86. 

Gravel 7 4. 

Feldspar ..... 2 . 

Kaolin, burut . 6.5 6 . 

Glazing on Size Colors. — The essentia 
condition for this work is a well-size 
foundation. For the glazing paint, siz 
is likewise used as a binder, but a little 
dissolved soap is added, of about the 
strength employed for coating ceilings. 
Good veining can be done with this, and 
a better effect can be produced in execut- 
ing pieces which are to appear in relief, 
such as car-touches, masks, knobs, etc., 
than with the ordinary means. A skill- 
ful grainer may also impart to the work 
the pleasant luster of natural -wood. 
The same glazing method is applicable 
to colored paintings. If the glazing 
colors are prepared with wax, dissolved 
in French turpentine, one may likewise 
elaze with them on a size-paint ground 
Glazing tube-oil colors thinned with 
turpentine and siccative, are also useful 
this purpose. For the shadows, 
Sphalt ana vL Dyke brown ar^ecom- 
mended, while the contour may be 
painted with size-paint. 

Coating Metallic Surfaces with Gkss. 
J&fc surfaces 

weight of flin Vj* e 13 p ar t s of 

of s ^ 1U ^, Carb T Je Solten masses next 
boracic acid. lJ»e J rf8CC stone 

noured on a hard a na co _ 



IC). . The ,Teatd in C a 6 *muffle or any 

* r bricks — A glazing color for 
Glaze for ?H C ? G erm any is a compo- 
bricks patented m ^erm / 



GLAZES— GLYCERINE 



sition of ! 2 parts (by weight) lead; 4 parts 
litharge; 3 parts quartzose sand; 4 parts 
white argillaceous earth; 2 parts kitchen 
salt; 2 parts finely crushed glass, and 1 
part saltpeter. These ingredients are 
all reduced to a powder and then mixed 
with a suitable quantity of water. The 
color prepared in this manner is said to 
possess great durability, and to impart a 
fine luster to the bricks. 

GLAZES FOR LAUNDRY: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

GLOBES, HOW TO COLOR: 

See Glass- Coloring. 

GLOBES, PERCENTAGE OF LIGHT 
ABSORBED BY: 

See Light. 

GLOBES, SILVERING OF: 

See Mirrors. 

GLOSS FOR PAPER: 
See Paper. 

Glue 

(Formulas for Glues and methods of 
manufacturing Glue will be found under 
Adhesives.) 

GLUE, TO PREVENT FROM 
CRUSTING IN GLUE POTS: 

Clean glue pot thoroughly and then 
wipe entire inside of glue pot with a 
handful of waste previously soaked in 
any light mineral oil. As oil and glue 
will not mix the film of oil on the sides 
of the glue pot keeps the glue from stick- 
ing to and "crusting up." 

Rendering Glue Insoluble in Water — 
Stuebling finds that the usual mixture of 
bichromate and glue when used in the 
ordinary way does not possess the water- 
proof properties with which it is gener 
ally credited. If mixed in the daylight 
it sets hard before it can be applied to 
the surfaces to be glued, and if mixed 
and applied in the dark room it remains 
lust as soluble as ordinary glue, the 
light being unable to penetrate the in- 
tenor of the joints. Neither is a mixture 
of linseed oil and glue of any use for this 
purpose. Happening to upset a strong 
solution of alnm^prepared for wood 
staining— mto an adjacent glue pot, he 
stirred up the two together out of 
curiosity and left them. Wishing to use 
the gl U e a few dayg fae tried fQ 

fwiu lt +1 do ^ n water, but unsuccess- 

tSI « tb ^ hl , e h , a ^g ^t to a waterproof 
mass, jfpegh g i ue was then mixed wifb 

anim solution and used to join two 
™eceg of wood, these resisting the action 
oi the water completely. 



To Bleach Glue— Dissolve th P i 
water, by heat, and while hot a ' 
mixture in equal parts of oxalic LlA 
zinc oxide, to an amount eaini t , n 
1 per cent of the glue. After th . ut 
has been removed, strain through m y* 

Method of Purifying Glue. T) 

soaked in cold water r i';„__i .gl 



is soaked in cold water and d'i^r.1, ,^ lue 
hot 25 per cent solution of ml? d ma 
sulphate. The hot solutionis g fil? 1U ? 
and to the filtrate is added a £ 
solution of magnesium sulphatV * 
taining 0.5 per cent of hydrochloric 7M 
(or if necessary, sulphuric acid) J 
white Hocculent precipitate ii r>k+ ■ , 
which is difficult to filter Th ed 
mainder of the glue in the saline sohJZ 
is extracted by treatment with magnS 
s ill p ri £l tc. 

The viscous matter is washed, then 
dissolved in hot water, and allowed to 
cool, a quantity of weak alcohol acid 
ulated by 1 per cent of hydrochloric acid 
being added just before the mass solidi- 
fies. From g to 3 parts, by volume, of 
strong alcohol (methyl or ethyl) are 
then added and the solution filtered, 
charcoal being used if necessary. The 
glue is finally precipitated from this 
solution by neutralizing with ammonia 
and washing with alcohol or water. 

To Distinguish Glue and Other Ad- 
hesive Agents. — The product to be ex- 
amined is heated with hydrofluoric acid 
(50 per cent). If bone glue is present in 
any reasonable quantity, an intense odor 
of butyric acid arises at once, similar 
to that of Lirnburger cheese. But if 
dextrin or gum arable is present, only 
an odor of dextrine or fluorhydric acid 
will be perceptible. Conduct the re- 
action with small quantities; otherwise 
the smell will be so strong that it is hard 
to remove from the room. 

GLUE CLARIFIER: 

See Gelatin. 

Glycerine 

Recovering Glycerine from Soap Boil- 
er's Lye. — I. — Glycerine is obtained, as 
a by-product in making soap. 
many vears the Ives were thrown away 
as waste, but now considerable quantity 
of glycerine are recovered, winch a 
much used in making explosive com- 
pounds. , , 

When a metallic salt or one of tne 
alkalies, as caustic soda, is added , nn 
tallow, a stearite of the metal, (ef m ™oi 
soap is stearite of sodium) is torni- 
whereby the glycerine is ebmina 



rnied, 
ta ted- 



GLYCERINE— GOLD 



379 



i„ a Kle by-product is contained in 
Tbis valuable oy g ^ formed ^ gub _ 

tbe vera I patents, 
ject or « . off from the soap-pans; 

D ia \ j! s ; large quantity of water, 
this BOnWM « an a a amall quant ity 

s0lU f S ie and the great trouble is to 
of glyC +r ^e the lye so that the large 
concetttrau. . g eUminated> sorae . 

S ua " in to 12 days being occupied m 
un ? CS *fc,' e The soap and salt are easily 
doing wis. 

re ro V r einove the soap, run the lye into a 
• \t tanks alternating m size step- 
S -f 1CS , hat as the first, which should be 
If larae £? becomes full, the liquor will 
the larger t, j d from that i nt0 the 

S'and* so on?by this arrangement 
e rosinous and albuminous matters 
■11 «PHle and the soap still contained 
CWSSiSl float on the surface, from 
which it is removed by skimming. 
W Aiter thus freeing the lye of the solid 
• impurities, convey the punned lye to the 
glycerine recovering department (wooden 
troughs or pipes may be used to do this), 
and after concentrating by heating it in a 
steam-jacketed boiler, and allowing it to 
cool somewhat, ladle out the solid salt 
that separates, and afterwards con- 
centrate the lye by allowing it to flow 
into a tank, but before doing so let the 
fluid come in contact with a hot blast ot 
air or superheated steam, whereby the 
crude discolored glycerine is obtained. 
This is further purified by heating with 
animal charcoal to decolorize it, then 
distilling several times in copper stalls 
with superheated steam. The chiet 
points to attend to are: (1) The neutral- 
izing and concentrating the lye as much 
as possible and then separating the salts 
and solid matters; (2) concentrating the 
purified lye, and mixing this fluid with 
oleic acid, oil, tallow, or lard, and heating 
the mixture to 338° F„ in a still, by steam, 
and gradually raise the heat to 872° F.; 
(3) stirring the liquor while being heated, 
and allowing the aqueous vapor to es- 
cape, and when thus concentrated, sa- 
ponifying the liquid with lime to elimi- 
nate the glycerine; water is at the same 
time expelled, but this is removed from 
the glycerine by evaporating the mix- 
ture 



the soap lye may be neutralized with 
sulphuric acid, and aluminum sulphate 
added to precipitate the insoluble fatty 
acids, lhe filtrate from these is con- 
centrated and the separated miner*! 



ii— Xn W. E. Garrigues's patent for 
the recovering of glycerine from spent 
soap lyes, the liquid is neutralized with a 
puncral acid, and after separation of the 
insoluble fatty acids it is concentrated 
and then freed from mineral salts and 



, separated mineral 

salts removed, after which barium 
chloride is added and then sufficient 
sulphuric acid to liberate the volatile 
fatty acids combined with the alkali. 
These acids are partially enveloped in 
the barium sulphate, with which they 
can be separated from the liquid by 
filtration, while the remaining portion 
can _ be expelled by evaporating the 
liquid in a vacuum evaporator. Finally, 
the solution is treated with sodium 
carbonate, and the glycerine distilled. 

Glycerine Lotion. — 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Essence bouquet .... \ ounce 

"Water •. . - . 4< ounces 

Cochineal coloring, a sufficient 
quantity. 

(See also Cosmetics for Glycerine 
Lotions.) 

GLYCERINE APPLICATIONS: 

See Cosmetics. 
GLYCERINE AS A DETERGENT : 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth 
ods. 

GLYCERINE PROCESS: 

See Photography. 

GLYCERINE SOAP: 

See Soap. 
GLYCERINE DEVELOPER: 
See Photography. 



Gold 

(See also Jewelers' Formulas.) _ 

Gold Printing on Oilcloth and ^ 
tion Leather. -Oilc oth Lan very ^ 

be f %er1h eSving has been 
observed. After tnee ig hea t ed 

put in the press, the ^ , 

Sightly, so f tW it^s sti t P ^ . 
the palm of the nan« atlon Go 

without any unpleagn which a 

Tver the oJdo^ ruhhe d up, 

dr op of. olive o has g 



drop of. olive °» »~ &mm No pnmmg 
which gives a greasy heT priming 

with white of egg or any ^ ]d , { 

agent should b * ^sprinkling on grid- 

, T - 1 S^^-^ itton,B * 

alkaline substance and distilled. Inus l 



^ tjicn ireca iroui ui^.v.™ 

volatile fatty acids, and the concentrat 
e ^ glycerine solution treated with an 



GOLD 



a quick jerky motion and opening it at 
once. If the warm plate remains too 
long on the oilcloth, the gold leaf will 
stick. When the impression is done, the 
gold leaf is not swept off at once, but 
the oilcloth is first allowed to cool com- 
pletely for several minutes, since there 
is a possibility that it has become slightly 
softened under the influence of the heat, 
especially at the borders of the pressed 
figures, and the gold would stick there 
if swept oil immediately. The printing 
should be sharp and neat and the gold 
glossy. For bronze printing on oilcloth, 
a preliminary treatment of printing with 
varnish ground should be given. The 
bronze is dusted on this varnish. 

Imitation leather is generally treated 
in the same manner. The tough paper 
substance is made to imitate leather 
perfectly as regards color and press- 
ing, especially tnn various sorts of calf, 
but the treatment in press gilding differs 
entirely from that of genuine leather. 
The stuff does not possess the porous, 
spongy nature of leather, but on the 
contrary is very hard, and in the 
course of manufacture in stained-paper 
factories is given an almost waterproof 
coating of color and varnish. Hence 
the applied ground of white of egg pene- 
trates but slightly into this substance, 
and a thm layer of white of egg remains 
on the surface. The consequence is 
that m gilding the gold leaf is prone to 
become attached, the ground of albumen 
being quickly dissolved under the action 
of the heat and put in a soft sticky state 
even m places where there is no en- 
graving^ In order to avoid this the 
ground is either printed only lukewarm, 
or this imitation leather is not primed at 
all, but the gold is applied immediately 
upon going over the surface with the oily 
rag. Print with a rather hot press, with 

JmrJ a f me a . mount of ^at as is 
employed for printing shagreen and 
title paper A quick jerky printing 
avoiding a long pressure of the plate 5 
necessary. 1 ' 



pure n 
muriati 

nitric acid; place over "a"' gas " flTm e 
toi? »di«°l7*d. and" then 'add 

weiX of k ls ^ dlsso ved add 42 P arls ' h y 

remain ? v ^ ° f antimo «y- Let all 

anS w h ut' Cn -, Now P»t into a glass 
should l Wlt t the h ydrometer, which 
aould give about 1,800 specific gravity 



Pour into a arge glass and £11 
water until the hydrometer shi Up *^ 
pour all the solution into a A . 8 l09 <>- 
and add to it 1,760 parts, ff? 1 . W 
balsam oE sulphur, stirring w *n ^t, 
while, and put it oyer the |as»l - 
an hour it should ---- s ;> 



au uour it Slioilld give n „*7 lu > ^ 

l 25 ,ll'v STa i uiL]] ? tie £rS. 

to 185° F., when it should ho t it di up 
and then left to cool aboJt I* f*8 
Pour the watery fluid intn a ut ho ' d "s. 
and wash the irk-look£g *££ 
times with hot water; save f 0 

water as it contains some nortinn f . of 
Remove all moisture from^h e dai -V g ° ld ' 
by rolling on a slab and warm t 
the fire occasiona y so as to ^TS ^ , e 
When qui,, dry i ^ liZstflTl 
of turpentine and put it over a g v 
flame for about 2 hours; 4SghZf 
crease the heat for another ho| ■ ffi * 
half Allow this to stand about 24 hows 
and then take a glazed bowl and sp«3 
over the bottom of it 1.7GQ parts by 
weight, of finely powdered bismuth- L Uf 
the prepared gold over it in several 
places. Now take a vessel contain!™ 
water and place inside the other vessel 
containing the gold, and heat it so as to 
cause the water to boil for 3 hours: allow 
it to remain until settled and pour off 
the gold from the settlings of the bis- 
muth, and try it; if not quite right con- 
tinue the last process with bismuth until 
good; the bismuth causes the gold to 
adhere. 

Preparation of Balsam of Sulphur.— 
Take 16 parts oil of turpentine; 2 A parts 
spirits of turpentine; 8 parts flour of 
sulphur. 

Place all in a chemical pot and heat 
until it boils; continue the boiling until 
no sulphur can be seen in it; now remove 
from the heat and thin it with turpentine 
until about the thickness of treacle, then 
warm it again, stirring well; allow it to 
cool until it reaches 45° F., then test it 
with the hydrometer, and if specific 
gravity is not 995 continue the addition of 
turpentine and warming until correct, 
let it thoroughly cool, then bottle, keep- 
ing it air-tight. 

To Purify Bismuth.— Take 6 parts 
bismuth metal, J part saltpeter. MW 
together in a biscuit cup, pour out on to 
a slab, and take away all dirt, then grind 
into a fine powder. 

To Recover the Gold from the Re- 
mains of the Foregoing Process.— 1 1' 1 
all the "watery" solutions into a large 
vessel and mix with a filtered saturated 
solution of copperas; this will cause 



GOLD 



381 



« precipitate of pure metallic gold to 
Gradually subside; wash it with cold 
water and dry in an evaporating dish. 

All rags and settlings that arc thick 
should be burnt in a crucible until a 
vellow mass is seen; then take this and 
dissolve i t i n % parts muriatic acid and 1 
nart nitric acid. Let it remain in a porce- 
lain dish until it begins to thicken and 
rrvstals form on the sides. Add a little 
nitric acid, and heat until crystals again 
form Now take this and mix with cold 
water add a solution of copperas to it 
and allow it to settle; pour off the water, 
"d with fresh water wash till quite free 
from acid. The gold may then be used 
again, and if great care is exercised 
almost one-half the original quantity 
may be recovered. . 

The quantities given in the recipe 
should produce about 13 to 15 parts of 
the liquid gold. It does not in use require 
anv burnishing, and should be fired at rose- 
color heat. If desired it can be fluxed 
with Venice turpentine, oil of lavender, 
or almonds. 

i Treatment of Brittle Gold, — I. Add 
to every 100 parts, by weight, 5 to 8 parts, 
by weight, of cupric chloride and melt un- 
til the oily layer which forms has disap- 
peared. Then pour out, and in most 
cases a perfectly pliable gold will have 
been obtained. If this should not be the 
case after the first fusion, repeat the oper- 
ation with the same quantity of cupric 
chloride. The cupric chloride must be 
kept in a well-closed bottle, made tight 
with parafune, and in a dry place. 

H._p aS3 chlorine gas through the 
molten gold, by which treatment most of 
the gold which has otherwise been set 
aside as unfit for certain kinds of work 
may be redeemed. 

Assaying of Gold.— To determine the 
presence of gold in ores, etc., mix a 
small quantity of the finely powdered 
ore in a flask with an equal volume of 
tincture of iodine, shake repeatedly and 
well, and leave in contact about 1 hour, 
with repeated shaking. Next allow the 
mixture to deposit and dip a narrow 
strip of filtering paper into the solution. 
Allow the paper to absorb, next to dry; 
then dip it again into the solution, re- 
peating this 5 to 6 times, so that the 
filtering paper is well saturated and im- 
pregnated. The strip is now calcined, 
as it were, and the ashes, if gold is 
present, show a purple color. The 
coloring disappears immediately if the 
ashes are moistened with bromine water. 
The same test may also be modified 
as follows: Cover the finely pulverized 



ore with bromine water, shake well and 
repeatedly during about 1 hour of the 
contact, and filter. Now add to the 
solution stannic protochloride in solution, 
whereby, in case gold is present, a purple 
color (gold purple of Cassius) will at 
once appear. In case the ore to be 
assayed contains sulphides, it is well to 
roast the ore previously, and should it 
contain lime carbonate, it is advisable to 
calcine the ore before in the presence of 
ammonium carbonate. 



Gold Welding. — Gold may be welde 
together with any metal, if the rigl 
methods are employed, but best wit 
copper. Some recipes for welding ageh 
are here given. 

I. — Two parts by weight (16 ounc 
equal 1 pound) of green vitriol; 1 part 
by weight (16 ounces equal 1 pound) of 
saltpeter; 6 parts by weight (16 ounces 
equal 1 pound) of common salt; 1 part 
by weight (16 ounces equal 1 pound) of 
black manganic oxide or pulverized, 
and mixed with 48 parts by weight (16 
ounces equal 1 pound) of good welding 
sand. 

II. —Filings of the metal to be used m 
welding are mixed with melted borax m 
the usual proportion. To be applied m 
the thickness desired. 

HI _A mixture of 338 parts of 
sodium phosphate and 124 parts of 
boracic acid is used when tbe metal is 
at dark-red heat. The metal is then to be 
brought to a bright-red heat and ham ; 
mereel at the same time. The metal 
easilv softens at a high temperature, and 
TtUfn mallet is b\st. & W ££3 
™ntainin£? carbon should be removea 
from he surface, as success depends upon 
Jheformation of a fusible copper P hos- 
phate, which dissolves a l^f^ 
oxide on the surface, and keeps the latter 
in good condition for welding. 

acid- J he aunLwwua t citric 

Toiled with aqua £j| 

aC K d Kv the fold is dissolved and gold 
whereby the goia flnd 
chloride results. Aftej mi ^ 



\e pre- 



ffilo^p^'ir purified «* 

hydrochloric acid. 

r n \A from Acid Coloring Baths. I — 
Different lots arc to be poured together 



882 



GOLD 



and the gold in them recovered. The 
following method is recommended: 
Dissolve a handful of phosphate of iron 
in boiling water, to which liquor add 
the coloring baths, whereby small 
particles of gold are precipitated. Then 
draw off the water, being careful not to 
dissolve the auriferous sediment at the 
bottom. Free this from all traces of acid 
by washing with plenty of boiling water; 
it will require 3 or 4 separate washings, 
with sufficient time between each to 
allow the water to cool and the sediment 
to settle before pouring off the water. 
Then dry in an iron, vessel by the fire and 
fuse in a covered skittlepot with a flux. 



II, — The collected old coloring baths 
are poured into a sufficiently large pot, 
an optional quantity of nitro-inuriatic 
acid is added, and the pot is placed over 
the fire, during which time the fluid is 
stirred with a wooden stick. It is taken 
from the fire after a while, diluted largely 
with rain water and filtered through 
coarse paper. The gold is recovered 
from the filtered solution with a solution 
of green vitriol which is stored in air- 
tight bottles, then freshened with hot 
water, and .finally smelted wi th borax 
and a lit tle saltpeter. ~ 

Parting with Concentrated Sulphuric 
Acid. —It is not necessary scrupulously to 
observe the exact proportion of the gold 
to the silver. After having prepared the 
auriferous silver, place it in a quantity of 
concentrated sulphuric acid contained in 
a porcelain vessel, and let it come to a 
violent boil. When the acid has either be- 
come saturated and will dissolve no more 
or when solution is complete, remove 
the dissolving vessel from the fire, let it cool 
and, for the purpose of clarifying, pour 
dilute sulphuric acid into the solution. 
Ine dissolved silver is next carefully 
decanted from the gold sediment upon 
tue bottom, another portion of con- 
centrated acid is poured in, and the gold 
is well boiled again, as it will still contain 
traces of silver; this operation may be 
repeated as often as is deemed necessary, 
lhe solut, on) poured into the glass jars, 
is well diluted With water, and the silver 
is then precipitated by placing a sheet 
of copper in the solution. The precipi- 
tote is then freshened with hot water, 
which raa y al so be done by washing upon 
nf =n V l ^ £ uif ^ated silver (sulphate 
!tJ lver l ls , Passed out in linen, dried 
and smelted. The freshened gold, after 
d^ng 1S first smelted with bisulphate of 
of ,1ivl < ? r ? er *? ™>™rt the last traces 
ot silver into sulphate, and then smelted 
witn borax and a little saltpeter. 



by spreadin 



Sfh 



To Remove Gold from Silver^ 
old is taken from the surface of - 
ding over it a paste, £U 
powdered sal ammoniac with aoi,l t 01 
and heating it till the matter tls 
is nearly dry, when the gold * i d 
separated by rubbing it with ttr 
brush. 

II. — The alloy is to b 



e scratch 
e melted and 



poured from a height into a VCs u se f n j 
cold water, to which a rotarv ° f 



imparted, or else it is 0 ^^ 011 ia 
through a broom. By this meana ^~ 



poured 



metal is reduced to a fine granular on* 
dition. The metallic snbstance i s the n 
acid, and 



treated with nitric 



heated. Nitrate of silver i S "profucet 
winch can be reduced by any of the 
ordinary methods; while metallic So [A 
remains as a black sediment; which must 
be washed and melted. " — " — 

Simple Specific Gravity Test.— A cer- 
tain quantity of the metal is taken and 
drawn out into a wire, which is to be 
exactly of the same length as one from 
fine silver; of course, both must have 
been drawn through the same hole, 
silver being nearly § lighter than gold, 
it is natural that the one of fine silver 
must be lighter, and the increased weight 
of the wire under test corresponds to the 
percentage of gold contained in it. 

To Make Fat Oil Gold Size.— First thin 
up the fat oil with turpentine to workable 
condition; then mix a little very finely 
ground pigment with the gold size, about 
as much as in a thin priming coat. Make 
tile size as rearly gold color as is con- 
venient; chrome yellow tinted with ver- 
milion is as good as anything for this pur- 
pose. Then thin ready for the brush with 
turpentine, and it will next be in order to 
run the size through a very fine strainer. 
Add japan, as experience or experiment 
may teach, to make it dry tacky about 
the time the leaf is to be laid. Dry slow- 
ly, because the slower the size dries, the 
longer it will hold its proper tackiness 
when it is once in that condition. 

To Dissolve Copper from Gold Articles. 
— Take 2 ounces of proto-sulphate ol 
iron and dissolve it in h a pint of water, 
then add to it in powder 2 ounces oi 
nitrate of potash; boil the mixture tor 
some time, and afterwards pour it into a 
shallow vessel to coo) and crystallise, 
then to every part of the crystallized san 
add 8 ounces of muriatic acid, an 
preserve in a bottle for use. Bqua 
parts of the above preparation and <J 
boiling water is a good proportion to 
in dissolving copper, or 1 part a) wt»s 




01 ' nitric acid may be used to 4 parts by 
weight of boiling water as a substitute. 

GOLD PURPLE. 

T —The solution of stannous chloride 
necessary for the preparation of gold 
SS3e « produced by dissolving pure tin 
i P n pure hydrochloric acid (free from iron), 
nsuch a manner that some of the tin re- 
S undissolved, and, evaporating the 
solution, into which a piece of tin is laid, 
to crystallization. 

TT . — Recipe for Pale Purple.— Dis- 
solve 2 parts by wsight of tin m boiling 
fnua reeia, evaporate the solution at a 
moderate heat until it becomes solid 
dissolve in distilled water and add 2 
narts by weight of a solution o stannous 
SloridJ (specific gravity 1.7) dilute with 
9 856 parti by weight of water s Ur into 
the liquid a solution of gold chloride 
prepared from 0.5 parts by weight of 
Sold and containing no excess of acid 
(the latter being brought about by 
evaporating the solution of gold chloride 
to dryness and healing for some time to 
about 320° F.). This liquid is dimmed 
by the admixture of 50 parts by weight 
of liquid ammonia which eliminates the 
nurple. The latter is quickly altered oft, 
washed out and while still moist rubbed 
up with the glass paste. This consists of 
enamel of lead 20 parts by weight; 
quartzose sand, 1 part by weight; .red 
lead, 2 parts by weight; and calcined 
borax, 1 part by weight, with silver 
carbonate, 3 parts by weight. 

HI.— Recipe for Dark Gold Purple.— 

Gold solution of 0.5 parts by weight of 
gold, solution of stannous chloride 
(specific gravity 1.7) 7.5 parts by weight; 
thin with 9,856 parts by weight of water 
separate the purple by a few drops ot 
sulphuric acid, wash out the purple and 
mix same with enamel of lead 10 parts by 
weight and silver carbonate, 0.5 parts 
by weight. 



IV.— Recipe for Pink Purple.— Gold 
solution of 1 part by weight of gold; 
solution of 50 parts by weight of alum m 
19,712 parts by weight of water; add l.a 
parts by weight of stannous chloride so- 
lution (specific gravity 1.7) and enough 
ammonia until no more precipitate is 
formed; mix the washed out precipitate, 
while still moist, with 70 parts by weight 
of enamel of lead and 2.5 parts by weight 
of silver carbonate. According to the 
composition of the purple various reds 
are obtained in fusing it on: the latter 
may still be brightened up by a suitable 
increase of the flux. 



To Render Pale Gold Darker.— Tak 

verdigris, 50 parts by weight and ver 
strong vinegar, 100 parts by weigh 
Dissolve the verdigris in the vinegar, ru 
the pieces with it well, heat them and. di 
them in liquid ammonia diluted wit 
water. Repeat the operation if the d 
sired shade does not appear the first tinv 
Rinse with clean water and dry. 

To Color Gold. — Gilt objects are im- 
proved by boiling in the following solu 
tion: Saltpeter, 2 parts by weight; cook- 
ing salt, 1 part by weight: alum, 1 part 
by weight; water, 24 parts by weight; 
hydrochloric acid, 1 part by weight (1.12 
specific gravity). In order to impart a 
rich appearance to gilt articles, the fol- 
lowing paste is applied: Alum, 3 parts by 
weight; saltpeter, 2 parts by weight; 
zinc vitriol, 1 part by weight; cooking 
salt, 1 part by weight; made into a paste 
with water. Next, heat until black, on 
a hot iron plate, wash with water, scratch 
■with vinegar and dry after washing. 

Gold-Leaf Striping.— To secure a good 
job of gilding depends largely for its 
beauty upon the sizing. Take tube 
chrome yellow ground in oil, thin with 
wearing body varnish, and temper it 
ready for use with turpentine. Apply 
in the evening with an ox-tail striper, and 
let it stand until the next morning, when, 
under ordinary circumstances, it will be 
ready for the gold leaf, etc. After the 
gilding is done, let the job stand 24 
hours before varnishing. 

Composition of Aqua Fortis for the 
Touch-Stone.-Following are the three 
compositions mostly :n use: L— Nitric 
acid 30 parts; hydrochloric acid, 3 parts, 
distilled water, 20 parts. 

TT —Nitric acid, 980 parts by weight, 
hydrochloric acid, 20 parts by weight. 

Ill -Nitric acid, 123 part, by weight! 
hydrochloric, acid, 2 parts by weight- 

To Remove Soft Solder from Gold.— 
Place the wlrk in spirits of salts (hydro- 
chforie acid) or remove as u luch as poj- 

Tipping Gold Pens.-Gold pens arc 
ffi! tinned with iridium. This is 
Y U L SFderirSf rcrY small pieces to 
SoiJtB and filing to the proper shape. 

tit.— bimpiy _.r :„ }n „ solu- 



Gilt.— Simpiy iinned into a solu- 

Uo ." i k„. been eilt the spot touche 
SS& JSJSJfat&t will. S p— * 



GOLD — GRAIN 



brown stain if no gold lias been de- 
posited on its surface. 

To Burnish Gilt Work. — Ale lias 
proved a very good substitute for soap 
and water in burnishing gilt as it in- 
creases the ease aud smoothness with 
which it is accomplished. Vinegar is a 
somewhat poorer substitute for ale. 

White-Gold Plates Without Solder,— 
The gold serving as a background^ for 
white-gold is rolled in the desired 
dimensions and then made perfectly 
even under a powerful press. It is then 
carefully treated with a file until a per- 
fectly smooth surface is obtained. After 
a white-gold plate of the required thick- 
ness has been produced in the same 
manner, the surfaces of the two plates 
to be united are coated with borax and 
then pressed together by machine, which 
causes the harder metal to be squeezed 
slightly into the surface of the other, 
furnishing a more solid and compact 
mass. The metals, now partially united, 
are firmly fastened together by means of 
strong iron wire and a little more borax 
solution is put on the edges. Then heat 
to the temperature necessary for a com- 
plete adhesion, but the heat must not be 
so great as to cause an alloyage by fusing. 
The whole is finally rolled out into the 
required thickness. 

To Fuse Gold Dust— Use such a 
crucible as is generally used for melting 
brass; heat very hot; then add the gold 
dust mixed with powdered borax; after 
some time a scum or slag will be on top 
which may be thickened by the addition 
or a little lime or bone ash. If the dust 
contains any of the more oxidizable 
metals, add a little niter, and skim off 
the slag or scum very carefully; when 
melted, grasp the crucible with strong 
iron tongs, and pour off immediately 
into molds slightly greased. The slag 
and crucibles may be afterwards pulver- 
ized, and the auriferous matter recovered 

ZZ f V r T 3 throu gh cupellation by 
means of lead. J 



GOLD ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 



Parts, Cart^'S'/^Ur'^e? 



ink, enough to color. Or most 

line dye, water soluble, will die i ant " 

the solution. The coloring i s n i h 

guide the pen when writing. Thf> 1 1 to 

ine and silicate keep the writin 8 er ' 

and tacky so that it will retain §, 

or silver powder dusted on Tlv gol<i 
i„ „ ,-.,,„/],.„,,„ i , ' Anin twit 



I 



and tacky so that It^wilTrctafc^ m ° ist 
or silver powder dusted on Th g0l<i 
ing produces the best results. 
gold or other powder on the writi* he 
flick off the surplus powder with th| ff 
ger, from the back of the paner a 
electric iron (as used for iron fa* cLt, > 
is the best thing to heat the wrl£ 
bring out the embossed effect Hal 
iron hot, but not too hot or it will k 
the paper and spoil the embossing £? 
der. Turn the switch off when ImbSbS 
enough and on again as needed, if vo „ S2 
doing considerable work. Experience 2 
guide you in the amount of heat neces 
sary Hold the back of the paper upon 
which the embossing is to appear, over 
the iron, pressing down lightly with som e 
metallic object like a table knife, or fork 
or a nail file. As soon as the writing or 
imprinting raises, remove from heat. The 
raised letters will be smooth and stand 
up when the work is correctly done. 
After the work has cooled off, wipe off 
any surplus powder with a clean rag. 
Shake before using. Write with clean 
pen. While writing is still wet dust the 
powder over it. Then heat gently over 
an electric or gas toaster, or iron, until 
embossing effect is obtained, 

GRAIK. 

Formalin Treatment of Seed Grain 
for Smut. — Smut is a parasitic fungus, 
and springs from a spore (which cor- 
responds to a seed in higher plants). 
This germinates when the grain is 
seeded and, penetrating the little grain 
plant when but a few days old, grows up 
within the grain stem. After entering 
the stem there is no evidence of its 
presence until the grain begins to head. 
At this time the smut plant robs the 
developing kernels of their nourishment 
and ripens a mass of smut spores. 

These spores usually ripen before tJie 
grain, and are blown about the neld. 
many spores becoming lodged on tn 
ripening grain kernels. The whotesai 
agent of infection is Hie &rewg* 
machine. For this reason the f dieh 
plan is to treat all seed wheat and oais 
each year. . t 

Secure a 40 per cent solution ^ 
formalin (the commercial name 
formaldehyde gas held in a water 
lution). About 1 ounce is requ' re d , 
every 5 bushels of grain to be treats 



cr so- 
ed iot 



GRAIN— GREASE ERADICATORS 



386 



of 

I 



Clean off a space on the barn floor or 
-weep a clean space on the hard level 
sweep <* i r „ jiood-sized canvas 

Kn on which y to ipSad out the wheat. 
Se T0,at the place where the grain is to 
£ treated is swept clean and thoroughly 
JSrfffied with the formalin solution 
bSore placing the seed grain there. . 

Prepare the formalin solution im- 
mediately before use, as it * volatile, 
Sid if kept may disappear by evapora- 

tiD 5« 4 ounees of formalin for 10 (gallon* 
water This is sufficient for 600 
ounls of grain. Put the solution m a 
arrel or tub, thoroughly nming. 
The solution can be applied with the 
garden sprinkler, Care must be taken 
to moisten the gram thoroughly. Sprinkle 
stir the grain up thoroughly and sprinkle 
acain, until every kernel is wet. _ . 

\fter sprinkling, place the gram m 
a conical pile and cover with horse- 
blankets, gunny sacks, etc. A he smut 
that does the damage lies just under the 
el nine of the oats or on the basal hairs 
of the wheat. Covering the treated gram 
holds the gas from the formalin nmtkzn 
the pile, where it comes m contact with 
the kernels, killing such smut spores as 
may have survived the previous treat- 
ment. After the grain has remained m a 
covered pile 2 to 4 hours, spread it out 
again where the wind can blow over it, 
to air and dry. # 

As soon as the grain can be taken m 
the hand without the kernels st«J in g 
together, it can be sown in the field. 
The grain may be treated in the forenoon 
and seeded in the afternoon. 

Since this treatment swells the kernels 
it hastens germination and should be 
done in the spring just before seeding 
time. 

While the copper sulphate or blue- 
stnne treatment is valuable in killing 
smut, the formalin treatment can be 
given in less time, is applied so easily 
and is so effectual that it is recommended 
as a sure and ready means of killing 
smut in wheat and oats. 

GRAPE JUICE: 

This recipe has an excellent flavor and 
a good color. Place 1 pint of grapes, 
picked from the stem, in a hot sterilized 
quart jar. Add one cupful of sugar and 
fill with boding water. Seal and turn up- 
side-down overnight. In the morning 
turn right side up. This aids in dissolv- 
ing- tbe sugar. Store in a cool dark place. 

GRAPE JUICE, PRESERVATION 

OF: See Wines and Liquors. 



GRAPHITE AS A LUBRICANT: 

See Lubricants. 



GRAVEL WALKS. 

For cleaning gravel walks any of the 
following may be used : I. — Gas-tar 
liquor. 

II. — Rock salt (cattle salt). 

III. — Hydrochloric acid. 

IV. — Sulphuric acid. 

V. — Fresh Hmewater. The. gas -tar 
liquor must be poured out a few times 
in succession, and must not touch the 
tree roots and borders of the paths. This 
medium is cheap. Cattle salt must like- 
wise be thrown out repeatedly. The use 
of hydrochloric and sulphuric acids is 
somewhat expensive. Mix 60 parts of 
water with 10 parts of unslaked lime and 
1 part of sulphuric acid in a kettle, and 
sprinkle the hot or cold mixture on the 
walks by means of a watering pot. If 
limewater is used alone it must be fresh 
—1 part of unslaked lime in 10 parts of 
water. 

GRAVERS: 

To Prepare Gravers for Bright-Cutting. 

~Set the gravers after the sharpening 
on the oilstone on high-grade emery 
ftripoli) paper. Nest, hone them further 
on the rouge leather, but without tearing 
breads from it. In this manner the si - 
ver and aluminum engravers grind their 
Iravers A subsequent whetting of the 
fraver on the touchstone is noUo'visable 
Lee it is too easily injured thereby A 
eraVer prepared as described gives excel 
fent br£h e t P en g raving and never f«lj. 

In all bright-cutting the graver must 
be hiXy polished; V- when brigh - 
cuttinl aluminum a lubricant like : coal- 

mTded f^g^ 
loosed of the following ingredients! 
composed en WDentine and 1 

Mix 4 parts of oil ° f stearine . 
part of rum with 1 ounce ^ ^ 

iS25 the bright-out, 

GREASES: 

See Lubricants. 

ods. 



SASE PAINTS: 

See Cosmetics. 

JREEJf, TO DISTINGUISH BLUE 

FROM, AT WIGHT : 
See Blue. 

GREEN GILDING: 

See Plating. 

GRENADES: 

See Fire Extinguishers. 

GRINDING: 

See Tool Setting. 

DER DISK CEMENT, SUBSTI- 
TUTE FOR: 
See Adhesives. 

GRINDSTONES: 

To Mend Grindstones^ — The mending 
of defective places in grindstones is best 
done with a mass consisting of earth- 
wax (so-called stone-pitch), 5 parts, by 
weight; tar, 1 part; and powdered sand- 
stone or cement, 3 parts, which is heated 
to the boiling point and well stirred to- 
gether. Before pouring in the mass the 

I places to be mended must be heated by 
aying red-hot pieces of iron on them. 
The substance is, in a tough state, poured 
into the hollows of the stone, and the 
pouring must be continued, when it com- 
mences to solidify, until even with the 
surface. 

Treatment of the Grindstone. — The 
stone^should not be left with the lower 

Eart in the water. This will render it 
nttle at this spot, causing it to wear off 
more quickly and thus lose its circu- 
larity. It is best to moisten the stone 
only when in use, drop by drop from a 
vessel fixed above it and to keep it quite 
dry otherwise. If the stone is no longer 
round, it should be made so again by 
turning by means of a piece of gas pipe or 
careful trimming, otherwise it will com- 
mence to jump, thus becoming useless, 
it is important to clean all tools and 
articles before grinding, carefully re- 
movmg a ]l g^e, f atj etc., as the pores 
of the stone become clogged with these 
impurities, which destroy its grain and 
diminish its strength. Should one side 
S*«l - + S rindstone be lighter, this ir- 
regularity can be equalized by affixing 

&° f ^ S ° aS to obtain * uniform 
Se Znn ? 6 ft 0 ?** 11 is ^ential that 

0t move to a *d fro in the bearings. 

heard 1 ?^ 118 ^plaints are often 

harder n» grindstones are occasionally 

softer nZr 6 ^ than tne other, the 
aotter parts wearing away in hollows, 



which render grinding difficult, and Sn 
make the stone useless. This defi ° n 
be remedied completely bv Jr ectc aa 
boiled linseed oil. When th 5 °* 
thoroughly dry, the soft side T is U 
uppermost, and brushed over with 
oil, which sinks into the stone i f ? 
latter is saturated. The operaC^ 
about 3 to 4 hours m summer A 
as the oil has dried, the stone m^T 
damped, and used without a™ r .i 
delay. Unlike other aiSffij *Ztt? 
this one does not prevent the stone f 
biting properly in the oiled parts, and the 
life of the stone is considerably Wl 
ened since it does not have to be drS 
so often. "^asea 

GROUNDS FOR GRAINING COLORS • 

See Pigments. 

GUMS: 

(See also Adhesives, under Mucilages.) 

Gums, their Solubility in Alcohol.— 
The following table shows the great range 
of solubility of the various gums, and of 
various specimens of the same gum, in 
60 per cent alcohol: 

Acajon 6.94 to 42.92 

Aden 0.60 to 26.90 

Egyptian 46.34 

Yellow Amrad 26.90 to 32.16 

White Amrad 0.54 to 1.50 

Kordofan 1.40 to 6.06 

Australian 10.67 to 20.85 

Bombay 22.06 to 46.14 

Cape 1.67 to 1.88 

Embavi 25.92 

Gedda 1.24 to 1.30 

Ghatti. 31.60 to 70.32 

Ghczicreh 1.50 to 12.16 

Halebi. 3.70 to 22.60 

La Plata 9.65 

Mogadore 27.66 

East Indian. 3.24 to 74.84 

Persian 1.74 to 17.34 

Senegal 0-56 to 14-30 

Substitute for Gum Arabic. —Dissolve 
250 parts of glue in 1,000 parts of boiling 
water and heat this glue solution on trie 
water bath with a mixture of about ^ 
parts of barium peroxide of 75 per ce 
BaO, and 5 parts of sulphuric aa 
(66°) mixed with 115 parts of water, J u 
about 24 hours. After the time Bj 
elapsed, pour off from the barium sw 
phate, whereby a little sulphurous 
results owing to reduction of ta 
phuric acid, which has a bleaching aci 
and makes the glue somewhat P. 
If this solution is mixed, with stirring, 
and dried upon glass plates m the cirv ^ 
room, a product which can hara ) 



GUNPOWDER STAINS — GYPSUM 



j- .^n^hed from gum arabic is ob- 
distinguished XT ' g w . th thig 

S'getnnot'be^peaed by moisten- 
KtS envelope. The traces of free 

^ which it contains prevent the m- 
valn of bacteria, hence all putrefaction 
V The adhesive power of the artificial 
a um is so enormous that the use of cork 
6 . nnVrs is ouitc excluded, since they 
S oVeVery time the bottle is 
opened, so that filially a perfect wreath 

H tk inner neck of the bottle « 
formed. Only metallic or porcelain 
stoppers should be used. 
GUM ARABIC, INCREASING ADHE- 
SION OF: , ™ i c 
See Adhesives, under Mucilages. 

GUM BICHROMATE PROCESS: 

See Photography. 

GUM DROPS: 

See Confectionery. 

GUM-LAC: 

See Oil. 

GUMS USED IN MAKING VARNISH: 

See Varnishes. 
GUN BARRELS, TO BLUE: 

See Steel. 



GUN BRONZE: _ 

See Alloys, under Phosphor Bronze. 

GUN COTTON: 

See Explosives. 

GUN LUBRICANTS: 

See Lubricants. 

GUNPOWDER: 

See Explosives. 

GUNPOWDER STAINS. 

A stain produced by the embedding 
of grains of gunpowder in the skin is 
practically the same thing as a tattoo 
mark. The charcoal of the gunpowder 
remains unaffected by the fluids of the 
tissues, and no way is known of bring- 
ing it into solution there. The only 
method of obliterating such marks as 
to take away with them the skin m 
which they are embedded. This has 
been accomplished by the application 
of an electric current, and by the use 
of caustics. When the destruction of 
the true skin has been accomplished, 
it becomes a foreign body, and if the 
destruction has extended to a sufficient 
depth, the other foreign body, the color- 
ing matter which has been tattooed in, 
may be expected to be cast off with it. 

Recently pepsin and papain have been 
proposed as applications to remove the 
cuticle A glycerole of either is tattooed 



into the skin over the disfigured part 
and it is said that the operation ha 
proved successful. 

It is scarcely necessary to say tha 
suppuration, is likely to follow such trea 
ment, and that there is risk of scarrin 
In view of this it becomes apparent th 
any such operation should be under 
taken only by a surgeon skilled in 
dermatological practice. An amateur 
might not only cause the patient suffer- 
ing without success in removal, but add 
another disfigurement to the tattooing. 

Carbolic acid has been applied to 
small portions of the affected area at a 
time, with the result that the powder and 
skin were removed simultaneously and, 
according to the physician reporting the 
case, with little discomfort to the patient. 

Rubbing the affected part with 
moistened ammonium chloride once or 
twice a day has been reported as a slow 
but sure cure. 

GUTTA-PERCHA. 

Gutta-Percha Substitute.— I.— A de- 
coction of birch bark is first prepared, 
the external bark by preference, being 
evaporated. The thick, black residue 
hardens on exposure to the air, and is 
said to possess the properties of gutta- 
percha without developing any cracks, 
ft can be mixed with 50 per cent of India 
rubber or gutta-percha. The com- 
pound is said to be cheap, and a good 
non-conductor of electricity. Wbether 
it possesses all the good qualities of 
gutta-percha is not known. 

tt _A new method of making gutta- 
percha consists of c-utchouc and a rosm 
soap th- latter compounded of 100 pans 
oi rosin, 100 parts of Carnauba wax an 
40 parts of gas-tar, melted together and 

CSS t? Tbo^t 3 a 5^ToV« 
? nfl The product is next put into 

qU ^7in thl machine at a tempera 
worked w tlm m m ffi . 

Sly kneaded, the mass can be rolle 
to lender it more uniform. 



GUTTER CEMENT • 
See Cement and Putty. 

GYPSUM: 

<Zee also Plaster. 

Rendering it we d e 

Klth S ev°en ly aft a e r complete hardening 




and pieces are very liable to be broken 
off. Various methods have been tried, 
with a view to removing this defect and 
increasing the hardness of gypsum. Of 
these methods, that of Wachsmuth, for 
hardening articles made of gypsum and 
rendering them weather-proof, deserves 
special notice. All methods of hardening 
articles made of gypsum have this in 
common: the gypsum is first deprived of 
its moisture, and then immersed in a 
solution of certain salts, such as alum, 
green vitriol, etc. Articles treated by 
the methods hitherto in vogue certainly 
acquire considerable hardness, but are 
no more capable of resistance to the 
effects of water than crude gypsum. 
The object of Wachsmuth' s process is 
not merely to harden the gypsum, but to 
transform it on the surface into insoluble 
combinations. The process is as fol- 
ows: The article is first put into the re- 
quired shape by mechanical means, and 
then deprived of its moisture by heating 
to to 302° F. It is then plunged 

nto a heated solution of barium hydrate, 
in which it is allowed to remain for a 
onger or shorter time, according to its 
strength. When this part of the process 
is complete, the article is smoothed by 
grinding, etc., and then placed in a solu- 
tion of about 10 per cent of oxalic acid 
"n water. In a few hours it is taken out, 
dried, and polished. It then possesses 
a hardness surpassing that of marble, 
and is impervious to the action of water, 
^or does the polish sustain any injury 
'ram contact with water, whereas gypsum 
trticles hardened by the usual methods 
ose their polish after a few minutes' 
immersion in water. Articles treated by 
the method described have the natural 

jj 1 " of pP sum > but it is possible to 
idd a color to the gypsum during the 
lardenmg process. This is done by 
Munging the gypsum, after it has been 
deprived of its moisture, and before the 
"reatment with the barium solution, 
nto a solution of a colored metallic 
ulphate, such as iron, copper, or chrome 
ulphate, or into a solution of some 
a? f in £ ma tter. Pigments soluble in 
the barium or oxatic-acid solutions may 
mso be added to the latter. 

Gypsum may be hardened and 
rendered insoluble by ammonium borate 
as follows : Dissolve boric acid in hot 
water and add sufficient ammonia water 
to the solution that the borate at first 
separated is redissolved. The gypsum 
to be cast is stirred in with this liquid, 
and the mass treated in the ordinary 
Way Articles already cast are simply 
washed with the liquid, which is quickly 



GYPSUM FLOWERS: 
See Flowers. 

GYPSUM, PAINT FOR: 

See Faint. 

HAIR FOR MOUNTING. 

The microscopist or amateur w b„ 
ayes himself, need never resort to tie 



sh 



trouble of embedding and cutting hair, 
in the microtome in order to secure verv 
thin sections of the hair of the face it 
he will first shave himself closely "with 
the hair," as the barbers say (i. e., inthe 
direction of the natural growth 'of the 
hair) and afterwards lightly "against 
the hair (in the opposite direction to 
above), he will find in the "scrapings" 
a multitude of exceedingly thin sections. 
The technique is very simple. The lather 
and "scrapings" are put into a saucer or 
large watch-glass and carefully washed 
with clean water. This breaks down 
and dissolves the lather, leaving the hair 
sections lying on the bottom of the glass. 
The after-treatment is that usually em- 
ployed in mounting similar objects. 

Hair Preparations 

DANDRUFF CURES. 

The treatment of that condition of the 
scalp which is productive of dandruff 
properly falls to the physician, but un- 
fortunately the subject has not been much 
studied. One cure is said to be a sulphur 
lotion made by placing a little sublimed 
sulphur in water, shaking well, then al- 
lowing to settle, and washing the head 
every morning with the clear liquid. 

Sulphur is said to be insoluble m 
water; yet a sulphur water made as 
above indicated has long been in use as a 
hair wash. A little glycerine improves 
the preparation, preventing the hair 
from becoming harsh by repeated wash- 
ings. 

The exfoliated particles of skin or 
"scales" should be removed only when 
entirely detached from the cuticle. J hey 
result from an irritation which is in ~ 
creased by forcible removal, and 
endeavors to clean the hair from them 
by combing or brushing it in such a way 
as to scrape the scalp are liahle to 
worse than useless. It follows tna' 
gentle handling of the hair is important 
when dandruff is present. 




HAIR PREPARATIONS 



389 



T —Chloral hydrate 2 ounces 

Resorcin 1 ounce 

Tannin....-- 1 ounce 

Alcohol ? ounC f, 

Glycerine ^ cs 

■Rose water to make . 4 pints 

n -White wax fl drachms 

Liquid petrolatum . . 24 ounces 

Rose water ,J °unce 

Borax . 



1 5 grains 



Hair Restorer. — 

III. — Tincture of can- 

tharides 

Gall tincture 

Musk essence 

Carmine 

Rectified spirit of 

wine 28 

Rose water 110 

To be used at night. 



Precipitated 'sulphur. 34 drachms 

pine-Tar Dandruff Shampoo.— 

P ; ne tar ' 4 P arts 

Linked oil 40 parts _ 

Heat these to 140° F.J make solution 
fltassa U S. P., 10 parts, and water, 
J^narts add alcohol, 5 parts, and 
t ad P uahv add to the heated ok stirring 
constantly. Continue the heat until 
saponified thoroughly; and mak . c 
M water to 128 parts When almost 
cool add ol. lavender, ol. orange, and ol. 
bergamut, of each % parts. 

HAIR-CURLING LIQUIDS. 

It is impossible to render straight hair 
curly without the aid of the iron or paper 
and other curlers. But it is pos sibU >, on 
the other hand, to make artificial curls 
more durable and proof again* ; outside 
influences, such as especially dampness 
of the air. Below are trustworthy re- 
cipes: T 



II 

80 
20 

3 

ad. lib. 



Water JjJ 

Spirit of wine °0 

Borax : ■ ■ • ™ 

Tincture of benzoin . . — 
Perfume ad - llb - 

HAIR DRESSINGS AND WASHES: 
Dressings for the Hair. — 
I, — Oil of wintergreen . 20 drops 
Oil of almond, es- 
sential 35 drops 

Oil of rose, ethereal 1 drop 

Oil of violets 30 drops 

Tincture of canthar- 

ides 50 drops 

Almond oil 2,000 drops 

Mix. 



7 parts 
7 parts 
1 part 
0.5 part 



parts 
parts 



of 



14 parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 



Hair Embrocation. — 
II.— Almond oil, sweet . 280 parts 
Spirit of sal am- 
moniac 280 parts 

Spirit of rosemary. . 840 parts 

Honey water 840 parts 

Mix. Rub the scalp with it every 
morning by means of a sponge 



Rosemary Water, — 

IV. — Rosemary oil. 

Rectified spirit 

wine 7 

Magnesia 7 

Distilled water 1,000 

Mix the oil with the spirit of wine and 
rub up with the magnesia in a mortar; 
gradually add the water and finally filter. 

Foamy Scalp Wash.— Mix 2 parts of 
soap spirit, 1 part of borax-glycerme 
(1 + 2), 6 parts of barium, and 7 parts 
of orange-flower water. 

Lanolin Hair Wash.— Extract 4 parts 
quillaia bark with 36 parts water for 
several davs, mix the percolate with 4 
parts alcohol, and filter after having 
settled. Agitate 40 parts of the filtrate 
at a temperature at which wool grease 
becomes liquid, with 12 parts anhydrous 
lanolin, and fill up with water, to which W 
ner cent spirit of wine has been added, 
to 300 parts. Admixture, such as em- 
chona extract, Peru balsam, quinine, 
ti£ture of cantharides bay-oil, am- 
ionium carbonate, menthol, etc., may 
bT made The result is a yellowish 
white ndiky liquid, with a crearmhke fa 
]ay« ^'Cting on the top, which U fine! 
distributed by agitating. 

■Rlrch Water.— Birch water, which ha 

Alcohol. 96 per cent.. 3,500 parte 

Water g()0 parts 

potash soap. 150 parts 

gfKrchbudV.:.;:: W! «t. 

Essence of spring ^ 
CUoSu.^. s. to color. 

alcohol .and m f^ o{ i]lg «o« 
InTbirch oi? io 1 " 
^liitl? by"itile."and with constar 
"glUon? tfie soao mixture. *m 



890 



HAIR PREPARATIONS 



add the glycerine, mix thoroughly, and 
set aside for 8 diys, filter and color the 
filtrate with chloi ophyll, to which add a 
little tincture of saffron. To use, add an 
equal volume of water to produce a 
lather. 

Petroleum Hair Washes. — I. — Deodor- 
ized pale petroleum, 10 parts; citronella 
oil, 10 parts; castor oil, 5 parts; spirit of 
wine, 90 per cent, 50 parts; water, 75 
parts. 

II. — Quinine sulphate, 10 parts; acetic 
acid, 4 parts; tincture of cantharides, 30 
parts; tincture of quinine, 3 parts; spirit 
of rosemary, 60 parts; balm water, 90 
parts; barium, 120 parts; spirit of wine, 
150 parts; water, 1,000 parts. 

III. — Very pure petroleum, 1 part; 
almond oil, 2 parts. 

Brilliantine. — I. — Olive oil, 4 parts; 
glycerine, 3 parts; alcohol, 3 parts; scent 
as desired. Shake before use. 

II. — Castor oil, 1 part; alcohol, 2 
parts; saffron to dye yellow. Scent as 
desired. 

III. — Lard, 7 parts; spermaceti, 7 
parts; almond oil, 7 parts; white wax, 
1 part. 

A Cheap Hair Oil. — I. — Sesame oil or 
sunflower oil, 1,000 parts; lavender oil, 
15 parts; bergamot oil, 10 parts; and 
geranium oil, 5 parts. 

II. — Sesame oil or sunflower oil, 1,000 
parts; lavender oil, 12 parts; lemon oil, 
20 parts; rosemary oil, 5 parts; and 
geranium oil, 2 parts. 

HAIR DYES. 

There is no hair dye which produces a 
durable coloration; the color becomes 
gradually weaker in the course of time. 
Here are some typical formulas in which 
a mordant is employed: 

I. — Nitrate of silver Jounce 

Distilled water 3 ounces 

Mordant: 

Sulphuret of potas- 

rv^fy- i ounce 
-UistilJed water 3 ounces 

II— 

(a) Nitrate of silver (crys- 

tv* xl'i " : ounces 

.Distilled water 12 ounces 

Ammonia water suf- 
ficient to make a 
clear solution. 
Dissolve the nitrate of silver in the 
water and add the ammonia water until 
tie precipitate is redissolved. 



(6) Pyrogallic acid a j Po , 

Gallic acid 1 7 ach *a 

Cologne water...." Z Jf, acht »s 

Distilled water. 4 ^ Cea 

• ■ • * ounces 

III. — Nitrate of silver.. . @n 

Sulphate of copper/. 3 & 
_ Ammonia, quantity sufficient 
Dissolve the salts in * ounce of L . 
and add ammonia until the precSf 
which is formed is redissolved ^1? e 
make up to 1 ounce with water ' a 1 
to the hair with a brush. This soljfi 
s owly gives a brown shade. F or d Xj 

posefof : PP y a £eC ° nd S ° luii0n ' co *- 

IV. — Yellow sulphide am- 

monium 2 drachms 

taolution of ammonia 1 drachm 
Distilled water 1 ounce 

Elack Hair Dye without Silver.— 
V.— Pyrogallic acid .... 3.5 parts 

Citric acid 0.3 parts 

gpro-glyeenne 11 parts 

Water ]Q0 parts 

If the dye does not impart the desired 
intensity of color, the amount of pyro- 
gallic acid may be increased. The wash 
is applied evenings, followed in the morn- 
ing by a weak ammoniacal wash. 

One Bottle Preparation. — 
VI. — Nitrate of copper . . 360 grains 
Nitrate of silver. . . 7 ounces 
Distilled water. ... GO ounces 
Water of ammonia, a sufficiency. 
Dissolve the salts in the water and add 
the water of ammonia carefully until the 
precipitate is all redissolved. This solu- 
tion, properly applied, is said to produce 
a very black color; a lighter shade is 
secured by diluting the solution. Cop- 
per sulphate may be used instead of the 
nitrate. 

Erown Hair Dyes. — A large excess of 
ammonia tends to produce a brownish 
dye. Various shades of brown may be 
produced by increasing the amount of 
water in the silver solution. It should 
be remembered that the hair must, pre- 
viously to treatment, be washed with warm 
water containing sodium carbonate, well 
rinsed with clear water, and dried. 

I.— Silver nitrate 480 grains 

Copper nitrate ... 90 grains 
Distilled water. . . Sfluidounces 
Ammonia water, sufficient. 
Dissolve the two salts in the distilled 
water and add the ammonia water unti 
the liquid becomes a clear fluid. _ 
In using apply to the hair careluuy 



HAIR PREPARATIONS 



391 



^th a tooth-brush, after thoroughly 
cleansing the hair, and expose the latter 
to the rays of the sun. 

H —Silver nitrate 30 parts 

Copper sulphate, 

crystals 20 parts 

Citric acid 20 par s 

Distilled water 950 parts 

Ammonia water, 
quantity sufficient 
to dissolve the pre- 
cipitate first formed. 
Various shades of brown may he pro- 
duced by properly diluting the solution 
before it be applied. 

Bismuth subni- 

trate 200 grams 

Water 3 fluidounces 

Nitric acid, suffi- 
cient to dissolve, 

or about 420 grams 

Use heat to effect solution. Also: 
Tartaric acid .... 150 grama 
Sodium bicarbon- 
ate . . . . 1GS grams 

Water V. 32 fiuidounces 

When effervescence of the latter has 
ceased, mix the cold liquids by pouring 
the latter into the former with constant 
stirring. Allow the precipitate to sub- 
side; transfer it to a filter or strainer, and 
wash with water until free from the 
sodium nitrate formed. 
Chestnut Hair Dye. — 

Bismuth nitrate. .. 230 grains 

Tartaric acid 75 grains 

Water 100 minims 

Dissolve the acid in the water, and to 
the solution add the bismuth nitrate and 
stir until dissolved. Pour the resulting 
solution into 1 pint of water and collect 
the magma on a filter. Remove all traces 
of acid from the magma by repeated 
washings with water; then dissolve it in: 
Ammonia water. . 2 fiuidrachms 
And add: 

Glycerine 20 minims 

Sodium hyposul- 
phite 75 grains 

Water, enough to 

make 4 fiuidounces. 

HAIR RESTORERS AND TONICS: 

Falling of the Hair.— After the scalp 
has been thoroughly cleansed by the 
shampoo, the following formula is to be 
used: 

Salicylic acid 1 P art 

Precipitate of sulphur. 2i parts 

Rose water 25 parts 

The patient is directed to part the hair, 



and then to rub in a small portion of the 
ointment along the part, working it well 
into the scalp. Then another part is 
made parallel to the first, and more oint- 
ment rubbed in. Thus a series of first, 
longitudinal, and then transverse parts 
are made, until the whole scalp has Deen 
well anointed. Done in this way, it is 
not necessary to smear up the whole 
shaft of the hair, but only to reach the 
hair roots and the sebaceous glands, 
where the trouble is located. This proc- 
ess is thoroughly performed for six suc- 
cessive nights, and the seventh night an- 
other uhampoo is taken. The eighth 
night the inunctions are commenced 
again, and this is continued for six weeks. 
In almost every case the production of 
dandruff is checked completely after six 
weeks' treatment, and the hair, which 
may have been falling out rapidly before, 
begins to take firmer root. To be sure, 
many hairs which are on the point of 
falling when treatment is begun will fall 
anyway, and it may even seem for a time 
as if the treatment were increasing the 
hair-fall, on account of the mechanical 
dislodgment of such hairs, but this need 
never alarm one. 

After six weeks of such treatment tne 
shampoo may be taken less frequently. 

Next to dandruff, perhaps, the most 
common cause of early loss of hair is 
heredity. In some families all ot tne 
male members, or all who resemble one 
particular ancestor, lose their hair early. 
Dark-haired families and races, as a 
rule .become bald earlier than those with 
Hiht hair. At first thought it would 
sfem as though nothing could be don ,e to 
Br event premature baldness when hered 
fty is the cause, but this ia a mistake^ 
Careful hygiene of the scalp will often 
counte balance hereditary ' P^P.?^ 

of the ^b^'^Xfly use, such as 
for this purpose for dauy _u , 

crot on ^ZnU^o^—iO 

p , r ,, nt ; tincture of capsicm 



croton on, ij F« - . f cinna mon, 40 
thandes, 15 per cent ^ J5 per 

per cent, tincture y qt any 

well: , 5 parts 

Oil of roses, sufficient. 



392 



HAIR PREPABATIONS 



For Falling Hair. — 
I, — Hydrochloric acid 75 parts 

Alcohol 2,250 parts 

The lotion is to be applied to the scalp 
©Tery evening at bedtime. 

It,— Tincture of cinchona 1 part 
Tincture of rose- 
mary 1 part 

Tincture of jabor- 
andi 1 part 

Castor oil 2 parts 

Rum 10 parts 

Mix. 

Jaborandi Scalp Waters for Increasing 
the Growth of Hair. — First prepare a 
jaborandi tincture from jaborandi leaves, 
200 parts; spirit, 95 per cent, 700 parts; 
and water, 300 parts. After digesting 
for a week, squeeze out the leaves and 
filter the liquid. The hair wash is now 
prepared as follows : 

I. — Jaborandi tincture, 1,000 parts; 
spirit, 95 per cent, 700 parts; water, 300 
parts; glycerine, 150 parts; scent essence, 
100 parts; color with sugar color. 

II. — Jaborandi tincture, 1,000 parts; 
spirit, 95 per cent, 1,500 parts; quinine 
tannate, 4 parts; Peru balsam, 20 parts; 
essence heliotrope, 50 parts. Dissolve 
the quinine and the Peru balsam in the 
spirit and then add the jaborandi tinc- 
ture and the heliotrope essence. Pilter 
after a week. Rub into the scalp twice 
a week before retiring. 

POMADES: 
I., — Cinchona Pomade, — 

Ox marrow 100 drachms 

Lard 70 drachms 

Sweet almond oil 17 drachms 

Peru balsam 1 drachm 

Quinine sulphate. . . 1 drachm 

Clover oil % drachms 

Rose essence 25 drops 

II. — Cantharides Pomade. — 

Ox marrow 300 drachms 

White wax-. SO drachms 

Mace oil 1 drachm 

Clove oil 1 drachm 

Rose essence or ge- 
ranium oil 25 drops 

Tincture of canthar- 
ides g drachms 

Pinaud Eau de Quinine.— The com- 
position of this nostrum is not known. 
Dr. Tsheppe failed to find in it any con- 
stituent of cinchona bark. The absence 
of quinine from the mixture probably 
would not hurt it, as the "tonic" effect of 



quinine on the hair is generally reear^^j 

as a myth. 

On the other hand, it has been stat ^ 

that this preparation contains: 

Quinine sulphate. % part 
Tincture of kramena 4 partg 
Tincture of canthar- 
ides Sparts 

Spirit of lavender. . . lo parts 

Glycerine J 5 parts 

Alcohol ioo part 8 



SHAMPOOS i 

A Hair Shampoo is usually a tincture 
of odorless soft soap. It is mostly per- 
fumed with lavender and colored with 
green aniline. Prepared the same as tr. 
sapon. virid. (U. S. P.), using an inexpen- 
sive soft soap, that is a good foam pro- 
ducer. Directions: Wet the hair well in 
warm water and rub in a few ten, spoon- 
fuls of the following formulas. No. I ia 
considered the best; 

I II III IV 

Parts used 

Cottonseed oil — 24 26 14 

Linseed oil 20 — — — 

Malaga olive oil .... 20 — — — 

Caustic potash 9| 8 6 3 

Alcohol 5 U 5 2 

Water 30 26 34 16J 

Warm the mixed oils on a largewater 
bath, then the potash and water in an- 
other vessel, heating both to 15S° F., and 
adding the latter hot solution to the not 
oil while stirring briskly. Now add arid 
thoroughly mix the alcohol. Stop stir- 
ring, keeping the heat at 158° F-, until 
the mass becomes clear and a small quan- 
tity dissolves in boiling water without 
globules of oil separating. If ^"Tf 
after the alcohol has been mixed tne 
soap will be opaque. Set aside for a lew 
days in a warm place before using to 
make liquid shampoo. 

Liquid Shampoos. — • 

I. — Fluid extract of 

soap- bark 10 parts 

Glycerine 5 pa*f 

Cologne water 10 P» r f 

Alcohol SO parts 

Rose water 30 parts 

II.— Soft soap - mparts 

Potassium #.carbon- 

ate 5 parts 

Alcohol ! . 4S parts 

Water enough to 

make ... P arts 




HAIR PREPARATIONS — HAIR STRAIGHTENER 393 

Melt the wax and suet together, add 
the castor oil and the Benzoic acid, allow 
this to cool a little and then stir in th 
oils, v ' •' ■ " 



Shampoo Pastes. — 

t White castile soap, 

X ' in shavings 2 ounces 

Ammonia water ... 2 Announces 
Bay rum, or cologne 

wto 1 fluidounce 

riwerine 1 fluidounce 

Water ?!. .-.' 12 fluidounces 

Dissolve the soap in the water by 
mSSof heat; when nearly cold star m 
the other ingredients. 
II.— Castile soap, white 4 ounces 
Potassium carbon- 

„ le 1 ounce 

w ' ater " 6 fluidounces 

GlvSine 2 fluidounces 

Oil of lavender 

flowers 5 drops 

Oil of bergamot .... 10 drops 
To the water add the soap, in shav- 
ing and the potassium carbonate, and 
Et on a wa& bath until thorough y 
softened; add the glycerine and oils. It 
necessary to reduce to proper consist- 
ency, more water may be added. 
Egg Shampoo. — > 

Whites of 2 eggs 

W" a tcr mt 5 fluidounces 

Water of "ammonia. 3 fluidounces 
Cologne water .... % fluidounce 

Alcohol 4 fluidounces 

Beat the egg whites to a froth, and add 
the other ingredients in the order m 
which thev arc named, with a thorough 
mixing after each addition. 

Imitation Egg Shampoos.— Many of 
the ecg shampoos are so called trom 
their appearance. They usually con- 
tain no egg and are merely preparations 
of perfumed soft soap. Here are some 
formulas 

I —White castile soap . . . 
Powdered curd soap . . 
Potassium carbonate. 

Honey 

Make a homogeneous paste by heating 
with water. 

II— Melt 3i/„ pounds of lard over a 
salt-water bath and run into it a lye 
formed by dissolving 8 ounces of caustic 
potassa in 1% pints of water Stir well 
until saponification is effected and per- 
fume as desired. 

Hair Straightener.— 

I. — Beef Suet \ P ound 

Yellow Wax 2 ounces 

Castor oil « ° un . ce e s 

Benzoic acid J£ «f ainS 

Oil of lemon 30 drops 

Oil of cinnamon » drops 



4 ounces 
2 ounces 
1 ounce 
1 ounce 



ous. 13 y using tins preparation twice 
day, rubbing a small quantity through th 
hair, massaging well with the tips o 
fingers it will straighten kinky hair an 

mnltp. it. lip. flat. 



j v.vv'L el lime tlllU Ull_.ll 

By using this preparation twice 
ubbing a sr-" 11 ~«— * 
massaging 
.,,_js it will s 
make it lie flat 

II, — Petrolatum y 2 pound 

Mutton suet rendered i/ 2 pound 

Beeswax 3 ounces 

Castor oil 2 ounces 

Benzoic acid . . 10 grains 

Oil of lemon or lemon 

grass 1 ft. dram. 

Oil Cassia 15 drops 

Melt the petrolatum, suet and wax by 
heat in a water bath and add the castor 
oil. Remove then from the fire and when 
nearly cold add the benzoic and the oil 
of lemon. 

III.— Lanolin 5 ounces 

Cocoa butter 3 ounces 

Yellow wax 3 ounces 

Sesame oil 5 ounces 

Melt in a double boiler and mix well. 

Apply to the hair morning and night. 

Wash the hair once a week with tar soap 

and rinse well. 

IV —Sodium silicate % o™ 06 

Sugar J °«fcj 

Water, soft, to make a total ot 
one pint. 

Add the sodium silicate and sugar to 
the water and allow to dissolve. This can 
then be perfumed if desired, with a water 
soluble perfume oil. By damping the ha r 
well with this solution and rubbing it 
well to , the desired effect can be gained 
V-2 pounds petrolatum (heavy yellow) 
6 ounces yellow beeswax 
i/a ounce paraffin wax 
4 ounces (A-) castor oil 
i/„ drachm boric acid 
1 drachm camphor gum 
1 drachm salicylic acid 
3 drachms oil of mac 
Use a double toiler ^ and 
the first tour ingrea i<=u>». 

camp n or, 

Take off W ^ ^ nd V A« 
stirring until it „ Then cool 

* f ^Ctorie Sd 'alicvlie aeid and 

petrolatum 
rorcStnO'VenleeTrpentine 
t S'fi) tot glycerine 



S94 ANTI-KINK HAIR CREAM — HERBARIUM SPECIMENS 



1 ounce (ay.) powdered am- 
monium chloride 

1 ounce (av.) powdered potas- 
sium nitrate 

1 ounce (fl.) oil of lavender 

3 drachms (ay.) artificial musk 
Mix well together the powdered am- 
monium chloride and potassium nitrate 
and then add hot glycerine (heat over 
water-bath). To this add % of the 
petrolatum and mix well. To the other 
half of the petrolatum^ add the beeswax 
and turpentine, using a little heat to melt. 
Then remove from fire after they are 
melted and mixed. The first mixture can 
then be added and mixed to the second 
mixture. If you wish, perfume can be 
blended (oil of lavender and artificial 
musk). 

VII. — Remove all grease by washing 
the hair thoroughly, and upon drying the 
hair well apply the cream made in an 
earthenware vessel: 

2 ounces powdered Tragacanth 

1 ounce boric acid 

ly 2 quarts water 
Make a uniform paste using a wooden 
spoon, and stir in previously dissolved: 

1 ounce sodium carbonate 

1 ounce potassium hydroxide 

2 ounces glycerine 
8 ounces water 

% of an ounce of oil of almond 

When mixed well, transfer to a glass 
jar and keep covered. 

Apply the paste to the hair and allow 
it to remain for about one hour. Then 
wash well with water to remove all paste 
from hair. Should the kink persist, sev- 
eral applications may be required. 



To Extract Shellac from Fur Hats.— 
Use the common solvents, as carbon 
bisulphide, benzine, wood alcohol, tur- 
pentine, and so forth, reclaiming the 
spirit and shellac by a suitable still,' 

HEADACHE REMEDIES: 
See also Pain Killers. 

Headache Cologne.— As a mitigant 
ot headache, cologne water of the farina 
type is refreshing. 

Oil of neroli 6 drachms 

Oil of rosemary 3 drachms 

JJi of bergamot 3 drachms 

<JU of ccdrat. 7 drachms 

Uil of orange peel .... 7 drachms 
Deodorized alcohol . . 1 gallon 



To secure a satisfactory r»rnHnn+ t 
the foregoing formula it is neeEr?? 
look carefully to the quality of the i 
Oil of cedrat is prone to change an J I -J 
of orange peel, if exposed to the at™ 
phere for a short time, becomes ^Sff" 
less and will spoil the other materials 

A delightful combination of the anrt 
odor with that of cologne water mav k 
had by adding to a pint of the foregoing 
2 drachms of glacial acetic acid Th 
odor so produced may be more gratefill 
to some invalids than the neroli anil 
lemon bouquet. 

Still another striking variation of the 
cologne odor, suitable for the use in 
dicated, may be made by adding to a 
pint of cologne water an ounce of am- 
moniated alcohol. 

Liquid Headache Remedies. — 

Acetanilid 60 grains 

Alcohol 4 fluidrachms 

Ammonium carbon- 
ate 30 grains 

Water 2 fluidrachms 

Simple elixir to 

make 2 fluidounces 

Dissolve the acetanilid in the alcohol, 
the ammonium carbonate in the water, 
mix each solution with a portion of the 
simple elixir, and mix the whole together. 

HEAT-INDICATING PAINT: 

See Paint. 

HEAT INSULATION: 

See Insulation. 

HEAT, PRICKLY: 

See Household Formulas. 

HEAT-RESISTANT LAC Q UERS : 

See Lacquers. 

HEAVES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

HEDGE MUSTARD. 

Hedge mustard (erysimum) was at 
one time a popular remedy in France to 
hoarseness, and is still used in country 
districts, but is not often prescribed. 

Liquid ammonia 10 drops 

Syrup of erysimum H ounce 

Infusion of lime flowers. 3 ounces 
To be taken at one dose. 
HERBARIUM SPECIMENS, MOUNT- 
ING. 

A matter of first importance, afte* 
drying the herbarium specimens, « ^ 
poison them, to prevent the fF aC *, ra 
insects. This is done by brushing 
over on both sides, using a ciime K ■ ^ 
pencil, with a solution of 2 g ra 



HERBARIUM SPECIMEN S — HECTOGRAPH PADS 395 



corrosive sublimate to an ounce of me- 
SKloted spirit. In tropical climates 
SS solution is generally used of twice 
£?« strength, Tliere are several methods 

S A them - Leaves With a W u X l 
Kce and coriaceous texture are best 

S ched turough the middle after they 
C been ^^>^^f £3 
SffSk t^offtheif leaflets in dry 
s ! This may, in some measure be 
SfcoSd by dipping them in boding 
Kr before drying, or if the leaves are 
Lt very rigid, by using strong pressure 
at first without the use of hot water. If 
fhe specimens have to be frequently 
handled the most satisfactory prepara- 
J on is Lepage'^ fish glue, but a mixture 
of K ue a P nd g paste, with carbolic acid 
added, is used in some large herbaria. 
The Advantage of using glue, gum, or 
oastc is that it is necessary to haye some 
ff the leaves turned over so as to show 
the under surface of the leaf, and some 
of the flowers and seeds placed loose m 
envelopes an the same sheet for purposes 
of comparison or microscopic exami- 
nation. Another plan is to use narrow 
Sips of gummed stiff but thm paper such 
as very thm parchment paper These 
strips are either gummed over the stems 
etc .and pinched in round the stem with 
forceps, or passed through slits made 
in the sheet and fastened at the back. 
If the specimens are mounted on cards 
and protected in glass frames, stitching 
in the principal parts with gray thread 
produces a very satisfactory appearance. 

Hectograph Pads and Inks 

The hectograph is a gelatin pad used 
for duplicating letters, etc., by transfer. 
The pad should have a tough elastic 
consistency, similar to that of a printer s 
roller. The letter or sketch to be dupli- 
cated is written or traced on a sheet ot 
heavy paper with an aniline ink (allien, 
has great tinctorial qualities). When 
dry tnis is laid, inked side down, on 
the pad and subjected to moderate and 
uniform pressure for a few minutes. It 
may then be removed, when a copy ot 
the original will be found on the pad 
which has absorbed a large quantity ot 
the ink. The blank sheets are laid one 
by one on the pad, subjected to moderate 
pressure over the whole surface witn a 
wooden or rubber roller, or with the 
hand, and lifted off by taking hold or 
the corners and stripping them gently 
with an even movement. If this is done 
too quicklv the composition may be torn. 
Each succeeding copy thus made will 



be a little fainter than its predecessor 
From 40 to GO legible copies may b 
made. When the operation is finishes, 
the surface of the pad should be gone 
over gently with a wet sponge and the 
remaining ink soaked out. The super- 
fluous moisture is then carefully wiped 
off, when the pad will be ready for 
another operation. 

The pad or hectograph is essentially 
a mixture of glue (gelatin) and glycerine. 
This mixture has the property of remain- 
ing soft yet firm for a long time and of 
absorbing and holding certain^ coloring 
matters in such a way as to give them 
up slowly or in layers, so to speak, on 
pressure. 

Such a pad may be made by melting 
together 1 part of glue, 2 parts of water 
and 4 parts of glycerine (all by weight, 
of course), evaporating some of the water 
and tempering the mixture with more 
glue or glycerine if the season or climate 
require. The mass when of proper con- 
sistency, which can be ascertained by 
cooling a small portion, is poured into a 
shallow pan and allowed to set. V le *? 
glue must be used or the mixture strained; 
and air bubbles should be removed by 
skimming the surface with a piece of 
eard-board or similar appliance. 

Variations of this formula have been 
proposed, some of which are appended: 

t —Glycerine 12 ounces 

' Gelatin 2 ounces 

Water ™ ounces 

Sugar 2 ounce" 

tt Water 10 ounee£ 

e „„„ S ounces 

gaffi.v:.v. « = 

Glycerin- U o-ces 

Zmc oxide. ^ uu 

~ , .. 10 ounces 

Serine., ..... 
Barium sulphate . 



8 ounces 



JJ (111 LA J." "~ £" . . Via- 

rr , Tokacs patent composition, be- 

tin, glycerine,^ «ig«. ^ g u ^ ashed ff 
soap, and can therefore p smoot h- 

™ UCh Zr£l tlriZ * also increased 
Soul sK-ore sticking capacity 
with the first impressions. 

writing to V "£^ b ,L>d paper with 
hectograph is ^^° aS f ? r Suitable 
an aniline ink. * °r 
ones are »PPf n ^i ne J Vrom writing with 
iTJurpfi^an with other kinds: 



HECTOGRAPH TNKS— HORN 



Purple. — 

I. — Methyl violet % parts 

Alcohol 2 parts 

Sugar 1 part 

Glycerine 4 parts 

Water 24 parts 

Dissolve the violet in the alcohol 
ixed with the glycerine; dissolve the 
ugar in the water; mix both solutions. 
II. — A good purple hectograph ink is 
made as follows: Dissolve 1 part methyl 
violet in 8 parts of water and add 1 part 
of glycerine. Gently warm the solution 
"or an hour, and add, when cool, \ part 
alcohol. Or take methyl violet, 1 part; 
water, 7 parts; and glycerine, 2 parts. 

Black.— 

Methyl violet 10 parts 

Nigrosin 20 parts 

Glycerine SO parts 

Gum arabic 5 parts 

Alcohol 60 parts 

Blue.— 

Resorcin bine M" 10 parts 

Dilute acetic acid .... 1 part 

Water 85 parts 

Glycerine 4 parts 

Alcohol 10 parts 

Dissolve by heat. 

Red.— 

Fuchsin 10 parts 

Alcohol 10 parts 

Glycerine 10 parts 

Water 50 parts 

Green. — 

Aniline green, water 

soluble 15 parts 

Glycerine 10 parts 

Water 50 parts 

Alcohol 10 parts 

Repairing Hectographs.— Instead of 
remelting the hectograph composition, 
which is not always successful, it is 
ecommendcd to pour alcohol over the 
surface of the cleaned mass and to light 
it. After solidifying, the surface will 
be again ready for use. 

HEMORRHOIDS : 

See Piles. 

HERB VINEGAR: 

See Vinegar. 
HIDES: 

See Leather. 
HIDE BOUND: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

HIDE-CLEANING PROCESSES : 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 



HOARHOUND CANDY: 

See Confectionery. 

HOARSENESS, CREAM BON-BOtfs 

See Confectionery. 

HOARSENESS, REMEDY FOR: 

See Cough and Cold Mixtures and Tur 
pentine. 



HONEY: 

Honey Clarifier. — For 3,000 parts of 
fresh honey, take 875 parts of water, 150 
parts of washed, dried, and pulverized 
charcoal, 70 parts of powdered chalk 
and the whites of 3 eggs beaten in 90 
parts of water. Put the honey and 
the chalk in a vessel capable of contain- 
ing \ more than the mixture and boil for 
3 minutes; then introduce the charcoal 
and stir up the whole. Add the whites 
of the eggs while continuing to stir, and 
boil again for 3 minutes. Take from the 
fire, and after allowing the liquid to cool 
for a quarter of an hour, filter, and to 
secure a perfectly clear liquid refilter on 
flannel. 

Detecting Dyed Honey. — For the de- 
tection of artificial yellow dyestuff in 
honey, treat the aqueous yellow solution 
with hydrochloric acid, as well as with 
ammonia; also extract the dyestuff from 
the acid or ammoniacal solution hy sol- 
vents, such as alcohol or ether, or con- 
duct the Arata wool test. in the following 
manner: Dissolve 10 parts of honey in 
50 parts of water, mix with 10 parts of a 
10 per cent potassium-bisulphate solu- 
tion and boil the woolen thread in this 
liquid for 10 minutes. 

HOP ESSENCE; 

To 10 pounds of proof spirit add 1 
pound freshly dried hop flowers and 
after 6 days press out about 9 pounds of 
extract. 



HOP BITTER BEER: 

See Beverages. 

HOP SYRUP: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

HORN: , . | 

Artificial Horn.— To prepare MjWjJ 
horn from compounds of nitro-celluJose 
and casein, by hardening them a i icl 
moving their odor of camphor, tne P_ - 
pounds are steeped in f° rmaIde j' vfl 
from several hours to as many a»j • 



HORN HOUSEHOLD FORMULAS 



rtrrli ti & to the thickness of the object 
Sd When the formaldehyde Us 
titrated through the mass and dis- 
JSS X caxnp/or the object^ Uken 
,7 nf the liquid and dried. Both the 
0U Lr Pxtracted and the formalde- 
f^used can b recovered by distilla- 
tion! and used over again, thus cheapen- 
ing the operation. 

Krd of A^lcuUuTcf Great BrLin: 
CUP Ae fair from the top of the horn 
. F lu„ «nlf i* from 2 to 5 days old. 
SjSW*2 end of a of 
Scpofash with water or saliva (or 
cau ." n ton of the horn bud) and 
Tb the t p o e P ach horn firmly with the 
notash for P about a quarter of a minute 
of until a slight i- P re SS ion has been 
made on the center of the horn. the 
horns should be treated in this way from 
I ^ 4 times at intervals of 5 minutes. If, 
durin- the interval of 5 minutes after one 
of more applications a htte blood ap- 
pears in the center of the horn, it -will 
then only be necessary to give another 
very slight rubbing with the potash 

The following directions should be 
carefully observed: The operation is 
best performed when the calf is under 5 
days P ofd" and sho uld not be attempted 
after ?he ninth day When not in use 
the caustic potash should be kept m a 
stoppered glass bottle in a ary place, as. t 
rapidly deteriorates when exposed to the 
aLr One man should hold the calf while 
an assistant uses the caustic. Koll a 
piece of tin foil 'or brown paper round 
the end of the stick of caustic potash, 
which is held by the fingers, so as not to 
injure the hand of the operator. Do 
not moisten the stick too much, or the 
caustic may spread to the skin around 
the horn and destroy the flesh. For the 
same reason keep the calf from getting 
wet for some days after the operation. 
Be careful to rub on the. center of trie 
horn and not around the side of it. 

Staining Horns.— A brown stain is 
eiven to horns by covering them first 
with an aqueous solution of potassium 
ferroeyanide, drying them, and then 
treating with a hot dilute solution ot 
copper sulphate. A black stain can be 
produced in the following manner: 

After having finely sandpapered the 
horns, dissolve 50 to 60 grains of nitrate 
of silver in 1 ounce of distilled water. .It 
will be colorless. Dip a small brush in, 
and paint the horns wTiere they are to be 
black. When dry, put them where ^ the 
sun can shine on them, and you will find 



that they will turn jet black, and ma 
then be polished. 

To Soften Horn. — Lay the horn for 1 
days in a solution of water, 1 part; nitric 
acid 5> 3 parts; wood vinegar, 2 parts; 
tannin, 5 parts; tartar, % parts; and zinc 
vitriol, 2.5 parts. 



HOSIERY: 

To Stop Runs in Silk Hosiery. — Put 

dry stockings in a mixture of — 
Aluminum ammonium sul- 
phate (ammonia alum) . 1 ounce 

Water 1 9^ Tt 

for about half an hour. Then remove 
and rinse and wash in soapy water. 

Household Formulas 

How to Lay Galvanized Iron Roofing. 

The use of galvanized iron for general 

roofing work has increased greatly dur- 
ing the past few years. It has many 
features which commend it as a roofing 
material, but difficulties have been ex- 
perienced by beginners as to the proper 
method of applying it to the roof, the 
weight of material used is rather heavy 
to permit of double seaming, but a meth- 
od has been evolved that is satisfac- 
tory. Galvanized iron roofing can be 
put on at low cost, so as to be water-taght 
Ld free from buckling at the nomto. 
The method does away with double 
seaming, and is considered more suitable 
than tne latter for roofing JFJP«£ 
wherever it can be laid on a root steepe 

tha Galvani"ed iron of No. f and heavie 
seamed and sobered e g 

£• 'roof ° P £Sra "£4 are fasten^ 
the rooi. n_ . turned up th 

together a ® a f de of the sheet, a 

enbre length of one side oi . Qn j 

indicated in Fig. 1. J- ms °V 




FIS. 5 



FIG. 6 



don e mth t-gk"*! h f s Ton P lV 
at the proper point, -ine 



HOUSEHOLD FORMULAS 



ition consists in turning a strip 1 inch 
vide toward the sheet, as shown in big. 2. 
This sheet is then laid on the roof, and a 
leat about 8 inches long and 1 inch 
ride, made of galvanized iron, is nailed 
,j the roof close to the sheet and bent 
)ver it, as shown in Fig. 3. 
A second sheet having li inches 
imed up is now brought against the 
rst sheet and bent over both sheet and 
Jeat, as shown in Fig. 4. The cleat is 
then bent backward over the second 
sheet and cut off eir-e to the roof, as in 
Fig, 5, after wh><"b the seams are drawn 
together by double seaming tools, as the 
occasion aemands, an d slightly ham- 
mered with a wooden mallet. Ths fin- 
ished seam is showD in Fig. 6. It will 
be seen that + he second sheet of galvan- 
ized iron, cut | inch '-jnger tnan the first, 
laps over the ;ormer, making a sort of 
bead which prevents water from driving 
in. Cleats hold both sheets firmly to the 
roof and are nailed about 12 inches 
apart. Roofs of this character, when 
laid with No. 28 gauge iron, cost very 
little more than the cheaper grades of 
tin, and do not have to be painted. 

Applications for Prickly Heat.— Many 
applications for this extremely annoying 
form of urticaria have been suggested 
and their efficacy strongly urged by the 
various correspondents of the medical 
press who propose them, but none of 
them seem to be generally efficacious. 
Ihus, sodium bicarbonate in strong 
aqueous solution, has long been a domes- 
tic remedy in general use, but it fails 
probably as often as it succeeds. A 
weak solution of copper sulphate has 
also been highly extolled, only to disap- 
point a very large proportion of those 
who re S0rt to i? . An[ , ^ we mj °£ 

on citing remedies which may sometimes 
give relief, but fail in the larg? prison 
Of cases In this trouble, as b almost 
every other, the idiosyncrasies f£ 

ZoeT & J a great P arti ^ the effects pro- 
duced by any remedy. It is caused 

tends to Lr S h!"' and an ?t«ing that 
relief *m '7, thls con £ es tion will give 
new!;, c least temporarily. Among the 
Bewer suggestions are the following: 

ll^ 01 333 parts 

chloroform::: Ill 

:::::: Iff 

ally With a D spong°e n " ^ ° CCasi ° n - 
1 one ln bearing the affliction is fre- 



quent change of underwear fu 
garments worn during the d | Tln d 
never be worn at night. Sc. t 
rubbing should be avoided wh 8 ° r 
sible. Avoid stimulating t^ f P 0 *- 
drinks, especially alcohol an? \ and 
keep the bowels in * «U 



means 
dition. 



Cleaning and PoUshin? Li™i* 
Wash the linoleum with , ° 1 Uni - 



ounces 
on tices 
ounces 



— . v^iw iiui with £ 

equal parts of milk and Water win j o£ 
and rub in the following mX% 
means of a cloth rag: felbj ture h y 
parts; turpentine oil, 11 parts ™g* 
5 parts. As a glazing agent a » J ' 
of . little yellow* was ,8?^ 

agents 0U « Poshing 

I. Palm oil, 1 part; paraffine, 18- k M 
osene, 4. 5 

„ , IL 7^ ellow + . wa % 1 , Part; carnauba 
wax, %; turpentine oil, 10; benzine, 5. 

Lavatory Deodorant — 
Sodium bicarbonate. , 5 

Alum , , . <j£ 

Potassium bromide.. . i 
Hydrochloric acid enough. 
Water enough to make 4 pints, 
To 3 parts of boiling water add the 
alum and then the bicarbonate. Intro- 
duce enough hydrochloric acid to dis- 
solve the precipitate of aluminum hy- 
drate which forms and then add the 
potassium bromide. Add enough water 
to bring the measure of the finished prod- 
uct up to 4 pints. 

Removal of Odors from Wooden 
Boxes, Chests, Drawers, etc.— This _ is 
done by varnishing them with a solution 
of shellac, after the following manner; 
Make a solution of shellac, 1,000 parts; 
alcohol, 90 per cent to 95 per cent, 1,000 
parts; boric acid, 50 parts; castor oil, 50 
parts. The shellac is first dissolved ij 
the alcohol and the acid and oil addea 
afterwards. For the first coating use i 
part of the solution cut with from 1 to* 
parts of alcohol, according to the porosity 
of the wood— the more porous 
necessity for cutting. When the M 
coat is absorbed and dried in, repeat i 
application, if the wood is very P or0 V 
with the diluted shellac, but rf-m ^JJ 
dense wood, the final coating 
now put on, using the solution 
addition of alcohol. If desired, tJie , s ° the 
bon may be colored with any « ^ 
alcohol soluble aniline colors. a * |j e d 
lac solution, by the way, may "H^hed 
to the outside of chests, etc., and »n' „ 
off sfter the fashion of "French P°' 1SB 




HOUSEHOLD FORMULAS 



899 



When used this way, a prior application 
gS coats of linseed oil is advisable. 

cs^ncil Marking Ink that will Wash 
Out -Triturate together 1 part of fine 
not ana 2 parts of Prussian blue, with a 
mSe glycerine; then add 3 parts of gum 
iJabie and enough glycenne to form a 
thin paste. 

Washing Fluid.-Take 1 pound sal 

Z ioound good stone lime, and 5 
soda, * P° U X r - boil a short time, let it 
and poTr^ff the clear fluid into a 
S * ? and cork for use; soak the 
S Xie cMhes overnight.!!! simple water 

• =oar> wristbands, collars, 

g dir V or \SSa places. . Have the 
Suer half filled with water just begin- 
S to boil, then put in 1 common tear 
rJul of fluid, stir and put m your 
rfothffl and boil for half an hour, then 
rub iSnSy through one suds only, and 
all is complete. 

Starch Luster. — A portion of stearine, 
thP size of an old fashioned cent, added 

o or 3 minutes, will add greatly to the 
beauty of linen, to which it may be ap- 
plied. 

To Make Loose Nails in Walls Rigid*— 
As soon as a nail driven m the wall be- 
comes loose and the plastering begins 
to break, it can be made solid and firm 
by the following process: Saturate a bit 
of wadding with thick dextrin or due; 
wrap as much of it around the nail as 
possible and reinsert the latter m the 
We, pressing it home as strongly as 
possible. Remove the excess of glue or 
dextrin, wiping it cleanly off with a rag 
dipped in clean water ; then let dry. ine 
nail will then be firmly fastened m place 
[f the loose plastering be touched witn 
the glue and replaced, it will adhere and 
remain firm. 

How to Keep Lamp Burners in Order. 
—In the combustion of coal oil a car- 
bonaceous residue is left, which attaches 
itself very firmly to the metal along the 
edge of the burner next the flame. 1 his 
is especially true of round burners, 
where the heat of the flame is more in- 
tense than in flat ones, and the deposit ot 
carbon, where not frequently removed, 
soon gets sufficiently heavy to interfere 
seriously with the movements the wick 
up or down. The deposit may be 
scraped off with a knife blade, but a 
much more satisfactory process of get- 
ting rid of it is as follows: Dissolve so- 
dium carbonate, 1 part, m 5 or 6 parts of 
water, and in this boil the burner for 5 



minutes or so. "When taken out the 
burner will look like a new one, and acta 
like one, provided that the apparatus 

for : — ' 



, uuv.) piunucu 1110,1, Liic ayya, 

tor raising and lowering the wick has not 
previously been bent and twisted by at- 
tempting to force the wick past rough 
deposits. 

To Remove the Odor from Pasteboard. 

— Draw the pasteboard through a 3 per 
cent solution of viscose in water. The 
pasteboard must be calendered after dry- 
ing. 

To Remove Woody Odor — To get rid 
cf that frequently disagreeable smell in 
old chests, drawers, etc., paint the sur- 
face over with the following mixture: 

Acetic ether 100 parts 

Formaldehyde 6 parts 

Acid, carbolic 4 parts 

Tincture of eucalyp- 
tus leaves 60 parts 

Mix. After applying the mixture ex- 
pose the article to the open air in the sun- 
light. 

To Keep Flies Out of a House.— Never 
allow a speck of food to remain uncov- 
ered in dining room or pantry any length 
of time after meals. Never leave rem- 
nants of food exposed that you intend 
?or cat or hens. Feed at once or cover 
their food up a distance from the house. 
Tet nothing clecay near the house.. Keep 
^SrooiS and pantry windows 
onen a few inches morit of the time. 
D P arken your roon, .and pantry when not 
;n use If there should be any Hies tney 
will ™ to the window when the room is 
Skfned, where they are easily caught, 
killed, or brushed out. 

At, -Raw Way to Wash a Heavy Com- 
foiabfe -Famine the comfortable, an 
tortame. _» JjV ".t" , cnarj them an 

if y ou find soded pot soap t ^ 

scrub with a smai _ ui d tur 

comfortable o» Mj - strong Uje 
the hose on. YYnen wate 
turn and wash t^ e and cover 

Preservation of Carpets. -Lay A« 

meats »ara>. 

Tf »° TuSag a over tb 



400 



HOUSEHOLD FORMULAS 



will drain off into the sink. Put a lattice 
railing about 6 inches high at the front 
and ends of the shelf so that dishes can 
be set against it on their edges without 
falling out. Have £ pans of hot water. 
Wash the dishes in one and rinse them in 
the other. Set them on edge in the rack 
and leave until dry. 
A Convenient Table. — 
Ten common-sized eggs weigh 1 
pound. 

Soft butter, the size of an egg, weighs 
1 ounce. 

One pint of coffee and of sugar weighs 
12 ounces. 

One quart of sifted flour (well heaped) 
weighs 1 pound. 

One pint of best brown sugar weighs 
12 ounces. 

How to Make a Cellar "Waterproof. — 
The old wall surface should be roughened 
and perfectly cleaned before plastering 
is commenced. It may be advisable to 
put the first coat on not thicker than J 
inch, and after this has set it may be 
cut and roughened by a pointing trowel. 
Then apply a second |-inch coat and 
finish this to an even and smooth sur- 
face. Proportion of plaster: One-half 
part slaked lime, 1 part Portland ce- 
ment, part fine, sharp sand, to be mixed 
well and applied instantly. 

Removing Old Wall Paper. --Some 
paper hangers remove old paper from 
walls by first dampening it with water in 
which a little baking soda has been dis- 
solved, the surface being then gone over 
with a "scraper" or other tool. How- 
over, the principle object of any method 
is to soften the old paste. This may be 
readdy accomplished by first wetting a 
section of the old paper with cold or 
tepid water, using a brush, repeating the 
wetting until the paper and paste are 
soaked through, when the paper mav 
easily be pulled off, or, if too tender, ma"v 
be scraped with any instrument of a 
chisel form shoved between the paper 
and the wa 1. The wall should then be 
washed with clean water, this operation 
being materially assisted by wetting the 
wall ahead of the washing. 

M^ i ^ i F em PP-~ rJ: ^^^d white 
smuH\ '^^h alcohol, and paint the 
When the spots are dry- 

Slatin* 1 6 f ° rms a sort of in - 

with £ ye , ~° ne can Proceed painting 

So'wtffou^tagai^ ^ ^ ^ 
Atter the windows and doors of 



have been closed k„: 



such rooms 

red-hot coal and strew 
handfuls of juniper berries Ah 
hours later open all window's and ^ ' 
so as to admit fresh air, and it ■?i° ts » 
found that the bad smell hac i- ^ e 

b er >tire]y 



that 
disappeared. 

Treatment 



of 



Damp Walls. _j 

t. ' 

which i s 



good and simple remedy to obviatt*+t£ 
evil is caoutchouc glue ■ ™U 



1 walls to 



pared from rubber hose 
te laid dry are first to be thorough! 
cleaned by brushing and rubbinc S 
then the caoutchouc size, which has b 
previously made liquid by heating i s !2 
plied with a broad brush in a uniform 
layer about 8 to 12 inches higher than 
the wall appears damp— and finally 
paper is pasted over the glue when the 
latter is still sticky. The paper will at 
once adhere very firmly. Or else, apply 
the liquefied glue in a uniform layer 
upon paper (wall paper, caoutchouc paper, 
etc.)- Upon this, size paint may be ap- 
plied, or it may be covered with wall 
paper or plaster. 

If the caoutchouc size is put on with 
the necessary care— i. e., if all damp 
spots are covered with it — the wall is 
laid dry for the future, and no peeling off 
of the paint or the wall paper needs to be 
apprehended. In cellars, protection 
from dampness can be had in a like 
manner, as the caoutchouc glue adheres 
equally well to all surfaces, whether 
stone, glass, metal, or wood. 

II. — The walls must be well cleaned 
before painting. If the plaster should 
be worn and permeated with saltpeter 
in places it should be renewed and 
smoothed. These clean surfaces are 
coated twice with a water-glass solution, 
1.1, using a brush ana allowed to thy 
well. Then they are painted 3 tunes 
with the following mixture: Dissolve 
100 parts, by weight, of mastic in JJ 
parts of absolute alcohol; pour Y . 
parts of water over £00 parts of isinglass, 
allow to soak for 6 hours; heat to solution 
and add 100 parts of alcohol (50 j>« 



cent). Into 



parts 
this mixture 



poui 



solution of 50 parts of amrnonia in 
parts of alcohol (50 per cent), stir we > 
and subsequently add the mastic saw 
tion and stand aside warm, stirring 
gently. After 5 minutes take a < 
from the fire and painting may be c 
menced. Before a fresh app'i^V 
however, the solution should be ™tn° 

When this coating has dried 
Iy it is covered with oil or varnish p 
preferably the latter. In the f m ** te r 
ner the exudation of so-called sa^r 



HOUSEHOLD FORMULAS — HYDROMETER 401 



• r „ c h masonry or on the exterioT of 
I n fr f S etc be prevented, size 

or lime p3S bei»g P employed in- 
P £»d of the oil-varnish pamt. New 
Ht which are to be painted will give 
S no more saltpeter after 3. or 3 apph- 
° *■ a nf the isinclass solution, so that 
Se co or of tS Si paper will not be 
the CPioxt. s ta i ns caused by smoke, 

inJ oT e c ceilings of rooms, kitchens, 
5 ' triors whieli are difficult to cover 
°n C w h s?ze paint, may a!- be com- 
ply isolated^ by applying the warm 
FSass solution 2 or 3 times. I he 
S St is, of course, put on only after 
complete drying of the ceilings. 

To Protect Papered Walls from Ver- 
-nin -It is not infrequent that when the 
Wlnaper becomes defective or loose in 
LpereTrooms, vermin, bed bugs ant, 
P tc will breed behind it In order to 
nreven his evil a little colocynth powder 
Kd be ^ded to the paste used for 
hanging the paper, in the proportion of 
£0 or 60 parts for 3,000 parts. 

Care of Refrigerators.— See that the 
sides or walls of all refrigerators are oc- 
casionally scoured with soap, or soap 
and slaked lime. 

Dust Preventers.— Against the bene- 
ficial effects to be observed in the use 
of most preparations we must place the 
following bid effects: The great smooth- 
ness and slipperiness of the boards dur- 
ing the first few days after every appli- 
cation of the dressing, which forbids the 
use of the latter on steps, floors of gymna- 
sia, dancing floors, etc. The fact that 
the oil or grease penetrates the soles ot 
the boots or shoes, the hems of ladies 
dresses, and things accidentally falling 
to the floor are soiled and spotted, lie- 
sides these there is, especially during the 
first few days after application, the dirty 
dark coloration which the boards take 
on after protracted use of the oils. 
Finally, there is the considerable cost ot 
any process, especially for smaller rooms 
and apartments. In schoolrooms and 
railroad waiting rooms and other places 
much frequented by children and others 
wearing shoes set with iron, the boards 
soon become smooth from wear, and tor 
such places the process is not suited 

According to other sources ot mlor- 
mation, these evil tendencies of the appli- 
cation vanish altogether, or are reduced 
to a minimum, if (1) entirely fresh or at 
least, not rancid oils be used; (3) if, after 
each oiling, a few days be allowed to 
elapse before using the chamber or hall, 
and finally (3), if report is not had to 



costly foreign special preparations, but 
German goods, procurable at wholesale 
in any quantity, and at very low figures. 

The last advice (to use low-priced 
preparations) seems sensible since accord- 
ing to recent experiments, none of the 
oils expci mented upon possess any es- 
pecial adi mtages over the others. 

An overwhelming majority of the 
laboratories for examination have given 
a verdict in favor of oil as a dust-sup- 
pressing a pplication for floors, and have 
expressed a desire to see it in universal 
use. The. following is a suggestion put 
forth for the use of various preparations: 
This di st-absorbing agent has for its 
object to cake up the dust in sweeping 
floors, etc., and to prevent its develop- 
ment. The production is as follows: 
Mix in an intimate manner 12 parts, by 
weight, of mineral sperm oil with 88 
parts, by weight, of Roman or Portland 
cement, adding a few drops of mirbane 
oil Upon stirring a uniform paste forma 
at first, which then passes into a greasy 
sandy mass. This mass is sprinkled 
upon the surface to be swept and cleaned 
of dust, next going over it with a broom 
or similar object in the customary man- 
ner, at which operation the dust will 
m?x with the mass. The preparation 
can be used repeatedly. 
HOW TO FLUFF THE HAIR: 



Hair can be fluffed and made tostanj 
nut well from the head, even without 
Sriin? by brushing it with an outward 
r^ist^lf the wrist that lifts the hair up 
SS&Sjp. For this brushing divide 
the hair into strands and go °ver tne 
£ e ad b m r a circle ^ 
and continue until all the hair n» 
lifted and lightene^ If this J tge^ 

brushing is kept ^P^^^t and 
times a week, the Ht ™ s an - 
stringiest of hair soon becomes urj 
easy to puff out from the face. 
HYDROMETER AND ITS- USE. 

Affile tall f^^i^ 
the spirit to be tested and seein 
the proper temperatu re .(W ^ ^ 
the thermometer indicate a h doth 
perature wrap the < cjiin w&te 
wh ich have been dipped i e 
until the tgng»t«j f ^ mperature< j 
degree. / f J°° * tne process, usin 

inJicate inste!d of cold P applications 
warm insteau ^ ^ specifi 

Whe ^ 6 t^hr 1 ^fitlnt hydrometer 

£r TaV iL blinder filled to the top and loo 
Have the cylinaer k Q 

across the top of the ,^P a prec lude 
the hydrometer. Ihis is w» 



HYGROMETERS — INCU BATOR 



402 

incorrect reading by possible refraction 

in the glass cylinder. 

HYGROMETERS AND HYGRO- 

SCOPES: 

Paper Hypomet^ -Paper 

then hanging up to dry: 

Cobalt chloride 1 ounce 

Sodium chloride * ounce 

Calcium chloride 75 grams 

wS'.:::: :::::::: s ounces 

The amount of moisture in the atraos- 
phere's "ughly indicated Je ?h«iff. 
tag color of the papers, as follows. 

Rose red ™ in . . 

Pale red • very moist 

Bluish red moist 

Lavender blue nearly dry 

Blue very dry 

Colored Hygroscopes.— These instru- 
ments are often composed of a flower or 
a figure, of light muslin or paper, im- 
mersed in one of the following solutions: 

I.— Cobalt chloride I part 

Gelatin 10 parts 

Water 100 parts 

The normal coloring is pink; this color 
changes into violet in medium humid 
weather and into blue in very dry 
weather. 

II. — Cupric chloride ■ 1 part 

Gelatin 10 parts 

Water 100 parts 

The color is yellow in dry weather. 

III.— Cobalt chloride. 



-.yuuau yiuunuc, . . . 1 part 

Gelatin 20 

Nickel oxide 75 

Cupric chloride 25 parts 

Water S00 Darts 



parts 



200 parts 

The color is green in dry weather. 

HYOSCYAMUS, ANTIDOTE TO: 
See Atropine. 



ICE: 

See also Refrigeration. 

Measuring the Weight of Ice A 

oe ?ea e ehcd a K e ° f ^¥ -eighfof ice cat 

block in Tuthit ' ftj<*ne S s of the 

by 30 ThK \ U ^ 1Vldin gthe product 
webht in j yer y closely the 

divided by 3uU r es d 30o 13 T' ™ d tMs 
gives JO pounds as correct 



weight. A block 10x10x6 
pounds. This simple method l 8 ** ^ 



easily applied, and it may 



short weight. 1 10 detect 



To Keep Ice in Small Quantity * 
keep ice from melting, attention t V 0 
to an old preserving method rl 
is cracked with a hammer V. a + ice 
layers of a. strong cloth. Tie over?* 2 
tnon unglazed flower-pot, holding A? 1 ; 
2 to 4 quarts and placed upon an 1 
lain dish, a piece of white flannel in I* 
a manner that it is turned down 'hi 
like into the interior of the pot S 
touching the bottom. Placed hi fi 5 * 
flannel funnel the cracked ice keeps f 
days. v 01 

ICE FLOWERS. 

Make a % per cent solution of the best 
clear gelatin in distilled water, filter, aad 
flood the filtrate over any surface which 
it is desired to ornament. Drain off 
slightly, and if the weather is sufficiently 
cold, put the plate, as nearly level as pos- 
sible, out into the cold air to freeze. In 
freezing, water is abstracted from the 
colloidal portion, which latter then as- 
sumes an efflorescent form, little flowers, 
with exuberant, graceful curves of crys- 
tals, showing up as foliage, from all over 
the surface. To preserve in permanent 
form all that is necessary is to flood them 
with absolute alcohol. This treatment 
removes the ice, thus leaving a lasting 
framework of gelatin which may be 
preserved indefinitely. In order to do 
this, as soon as the gelatin has become 
quite dry it should be either varnished, 
flowed with an alcoholic solution oi clear 
shellac, or the gelatin may be renderea 
insoluble bv contact, for a lew moments, 



with a solution of potassium 



bichromate, 



and su^qiient exposure to sunlight 

IODINE STAINS, TO REMOVE:^ 

Soak the garment winch is stain 
strong solution of sodium tluosi ^ 
(hypo or photographer s nj l / ^ 
whitened and then wash in cie<«r 
water to remove the hypo- 

INCUBATOR TO FUMlGAj^d 

For best results, an ^cuDa ^ j 
not only be cleaned thorough) j te d. 
is used, but it should also ^ ^ drU | 
Get a formaldehyde candle ir ^ , 
store. Set it in the incubator- The 
and close the door almost t - 
fumes will kill all the germs t 



be 



lodging there and this jjj 1 ^ A ir ^ 
chances of getting a ffJ^Z^g 
incubator two days beiore * 



IGNITING COMPOSITION— INKS 



40 



^eSS-^ and Meth- 
ods. 

rrHlTlKG COMPOSITION. 

ht mrts of powdered manganese, 
Tn E D a g rts of amorpLus phosphorus, and 
10 P *: «f slue The glue is soaked m 

Inks 

BLUEPRINT INKS. 

T_-For red-writing fluids for blue- 
tts take a piece of common washing 
P £ the size of an ordinary bean and 
distlve it S 4 tablespooiifuls of ordinary 
red Sing ink, to make a red flmd. 
To keep it from spreading too much use 
Jfine p P en to apply it with, and ™te *ast 
so as not to allow too much of the fluid 
to get on the paper, for it Will continue 
eating until it is dry. 

XI —For red and white solutions for 
writing on blueprints, dissolve a crystal 
J oxalate of potash about the size of 
a pea in an Ink-bottle full of water. 
This will give white lines on blueprints 
other potash solutions are yellowish, it 
this shows a tendency to run, owing to 
too great strength, add more water and 
thicken slightly with mucilage. Mix 
this with red or any other colored ink 
8 bout half and half, and writing may be 
done on the blueprints m colors corre- 
sponding to the inks used. 

Ill —Add to a small bottle of water 
enough washing soda to make a clear 
white line, then add enough gum arable 
to it to prevent spreading and making 
ragged lines. To make red lines dip the 
pen in red ink and then add a little of 
the solution by means of the quill. 

IV —For white ink, grind zinc oxide 
fine on marble and incorporate with it 
a mucilage made with gum tragacantru 
Thin a little for use. Add a little oil ot 
cloves to prevent mold, and shake trom 
time to time. 

Y \ fluid which is as good as any 

For writing white on blueprints is made 
of equal parts of sal soda and water. 

YI. ]y[i x equal parts of borax and 

Wa Bo r th these fluids, V and VI, must be 
used with a fine-pointed pen; a pen witn 
a blunt point will not work well. 



DRAWING INKS: 

Blue Ru l ing Ink. — Good vitriol, 
ounces; indigo, 1 ounce. Pulverize th 
indigo, add it to the vitriol, and let i 
stand exposed to the air for S days, o 
until dissolved; then fill the pots wit 
chalk, add fresh gall, £ gill, boiling i 
before use. 

Black Ruling Ink. — Take good black 
ink, and add gall as for blue. Do not 
cork it, as this prevents it from turning 
black. 

Carbon Ink. — Dissolve real India ink 
in common black ink, or add a small 
quantity of lampblack previously heated 
to redness, and ground perfectly smooth, 
with a small portion of the ink. 

Carmine.— The ordinary solution of 
carmine in ammonia water, after a short 
time in contact with steel, becomes black- 
ish red, but an ink may be made that 
will retain its brilliant carmine color to 
the last by the following process, given by 
Dingier: Triturate 1 part of pure car- 
mine with 15 parts of acetate of ammonia 
solution, with an equal quantity of dis- 
tilled water in a porcelain mortar, and 
allow the whole to stand for some time. 
In this way, a portion of the alumina, 
which is combined with the carmine dye, 
is taken up by the acetic acid of the am- 
m onk sal?, a'nd separates as a precipi- 
tate, while the pure .hlhlu 
cochineal remains dissolved in the half- 
saturated ammonia It is ^t/suzar 
a nd a few drops of pure white sugar 
svVun added to thicken It. A solution of 
/umW>fc cannot be used to thicken* 
?i nee the ink still contains some acetic 
acid which would coagulate the bas- 
Sne, one of the constituents of the 
gum 



of sal ammoniac, 16 , witn ^ 
weight, of distilled ^'^J. Now 
solution through a woo of 
dissolve or grind 0.5 parts y s 
shellac solution with U.U I ^ 
weight, of carbon black £ of 
.OSjpaxte of "By^bSS solutions 
distilled water and pour d 

togf a f . T^ ys m ^ d Ur the ready ink is 

GLASS, CELLULOID, AND MET 
INKS : . 
See ^so Etehrn^ o 



)4 



INKS 



and II are the most widely known 

T —In 500 parts of water dissolve 36 
narts of sodium fluoride and 7 parts ot 
fodium sulphate. In another^ vessel 



dissolve in the same amount of water 14 
oarts of zinc chloride and to the solution 
add 56 parts of concentrated hydro- 
chloric acid. To use, mix equal vol- 
umes of the two solutions and add a little 
India ink; or, in the absence of this, rub 
up a little lampblack with it. It is 
scarcely necessary to say thaf the mix- 
ture should not be put in glass containers, 
unless they are well coated internally 
with paramne, wax gutta-percha or 
some similar material. To avoid the 
inconvenience of keeping the solutions m 
separate bottles, mix them and preserve 
in a rubber bottle. A quill pen is best to 
use in writing with this preparation, but 
metallic pens may be used, if quite clean 
and new. 

II. — In 150 parts of alcohol dissolve 
20 parts of rosin, and add to this, drop 
by drop, stirring continuously, a solution 
of 35 parts of borax in 250 parts of water. 
This being accomplished, dissolve in the 
solution sufficient methylene blue to give 
it the desired tint. 

Ink for Writing on Glazed Cardboard, 
— The following are especially recom- 
mended for use on celluloid: 

I. — Dissolve 4 drachms of brown 
shellac in 4 ounces of alcohol. Dissolve 
7 drachms of borax in 6 ounces of dis- 
tilled water. Pour the first solution 
slowly into the second and carefully mix 
them, after which add 12 grains of 
aniline dye of the desired color. Violet, 
blue, green, red, yellow, orange, or 
black aniline dyes can be used. 

Such inks may be used for writing on 
bottles, and the glass may be cleaned 
with water without the inscription being 
impaired. 

II.— Ferric chloride .... 10 parts 

Tannin is par t s 

Acetone 1Q0 parts 

. Dissolve the ferric chloride in a por- 
tion of the acetone and the tannin in the 
residue, and mix the solutions. 

III.— Dissolve a tar dyestufl of the 
desired color in anhydrous acetic acid. 

Indelible Inks for Glass or Metal.— 
behobel recommends the following inks 
tZ ™? rkm B artlcles of glass, glass slips 

biLE lcr ° scopyj rea e ent flasks . etc., In 

. 1 ■ —Sodium silicate 1 to 2 parts 

Liquid India ink ... . i g art 



For white: 
ft.— Sodium water glass 3 to 4 par . 
Chinese white ^ pa t 

Instead of Chinese white, a s„ftt ■ 
amount of the so-called ten? 01611 * 
white (barium sulphate) may be 
The containers for these inks shoulT/ 1, 
kept air-tight. The writing fc eit ^ 
is not attacked by any reagent used ' 
microscopical technique but mav K 
readily scraped away with a knife TV 
slips or other articles should he as n 
chemically clean as possible, before a? 
tempting to write on them. 

According to Schuh, a mixture of . 
shellac solution and whiting or precirji 
tated chalk answers very well for mark- 
ing glass. Any color may be mixed with 
the chalky If the glass is thoroughly 
cleaned with alcohol or ether, either a 
quill pen or a camel's-hair pencil (or a 
fresh, clean steel pen) may be used. 

Ink on Marble. — Ink marks on marble 
may be removed with a paste made by 
dissolving an ounce of oxalic acid and 
half an ounce of butter of antimony in % 
pint of rain water, and adding sufficient 
flour to form a thin paste. Apply this to 
the stains witli a brush; allow it to re- 
main on 3 or 4 days and then wash it off. 
Make a second application, if necessary. 

Perpetual Ink. — I.— Pitch, 3 pounds; 
melt over the fire, and add of lampblack, 
| pound; mix well. 

II. — Trinidad asphaltum and oil of 
turpentine, equal parts. Used in a 
melted state to fill in the letters on tomb- 
stones, marbles, etc. Without actual 
violence, it will endure as long as tue 
stone itself. 

Ink for Steel Tools.-Have a rubber 
stamp made with white letters on a black 
ground. Make up an ink to use wim t° 
stamp, as follows: , « t 

Ordinary rosin, * pound; lard m_ 
tablespoonful; lampblack, 2 £U«spM} ( 
fulsj turpentine, 2 tablcspponfuls. £ . 
the rosin, and stir in the other Id 
in the order given. When the ink * c ^ 
it should look like ordinary P rIIlt f; a d 
Spread a little of this ink over toe v 
and ink the rubber stamp as u^y^ 
press it on the clean steel —saw 
for instance. Have a rope ot sv 'Jd ^ 
and make a border of putty j etter . 
stamped design as close up to in ^ ^ 
ing as possible, so that no porn oSe d 
steel inside the ring of putty is * t i e 
but the lettering. Then pour " J 
putty ring the etching mixture, P rJ , 
of 1 ounce of nitric acid, 1 ounce ox 



INKS 



405 



• „;a and 12 ounces of water. Allow 
ftoTeft'for onli a minute, draw off the 
* -H wfth a glass or rubber syringe and 
& °1„d the last trace of acid with a 
S °^t "Son gl Take off the putty, and 
design with potash solution 
IX fd then Wh turpentine, and the 
job is done. 

Writing on Ivory, GIa«, ete.-l«t«jte 

of ^-r, 3 P- tS 3 ^^tr iissoV P e the 
dist U<ed water 30 _p ts ; V ^ wat 

Sd th^ Srate of silver in, the other 
ffird. Mix and add the desired color. 

Writine on Zinc (see also Horti- 
Wntmg oil v su i p hate of 

cultural Inks). — lake i P a " chloride 
rnnner (copper vitriol), 1 part cruoriu*. 
of Dotassium, both dissolved in 35 parts 
iLr Willi this blue liquid, writing or 
drawing may be done with a common 
£d pen upon zinc which has been 
Shed bright with emery paper. After 
Ke writing is done the plates are put 
in water and left in it for some time, 
SJ taken out and dried. The writing 
will remain intact as long as the zinc 
If the writing or drawing . should be 
brown, 1 part sulphate of iron (green 
vitriol) is added to the above solution. 
The chemicals are dissolved m warm 
water and the latter must be cold before 
it can be used, 

GOLD INK. 

I —The best gold ink is made by rub- 
bing up gold leaf as thoroughly as pos- 
sible with a little honey. The honey is 
then washed away with water, and the 
finely powdered gold leaf left is mixed to 
the consistency of a writing ink with weak 
gum water. Everything depends upon 
the fineness of the gold powder, 1. e., 
upon the diligence with which it has been 
worked with the honey. Precipitated 
sold is finer than can be got by any rub- 
bing, but its color is wrong, being dark 
brown. The above gold ink should be 
used with a quill pen. 

jj — An imitation gold or bronze ink 
is composed by grinding 1,000 parts of 
powdered bronze of handsome color 
with a varnish prepared by boiling to- 
gether 500 parts of nut oil, 200 parts ot 
garlic, 500 parts of cocoanutoil, 100 parts 
of Naples yellow, and as much of sienna. 

HORTICULTURAL INK. 

I —Chlorate of platinum, \ ounce; 
Boft water, 1 pint. Dissolve and pre- 
serve it in glass. , Used with_ a clean 
quill to write on zinc labels. It almost 
immediately turns black, and cannot be 



removed by washing. The addition of 
gum and lampblack, as recommended i 
certain books, is unnecessary, and eve 
prejudicial to the quality of the ink. 

II. — Verdigris and sal ammoniac, 
each ^ ounce- levigated lampblack, 
ounce* common vinegar, \ pint; in_ 
thoroughly. Used as the last, for eith 
zinc, iron, or steel. 

III. - — Blue vitriol, 1 ounce; sal a 
moniac, \ ounce (both in powder); via 
gar, \ pint; dissolve. A little lam 
black or vermilion may be added,_ b 
it is not necessary. Use No. I, for iro 
tin, or steel plate. 

INDELIBLE INKS. 

These are also frequently called water- 
proof, incorrodible, or indestructible 
inks. They are employed for writing 
labels on bottles containing strong acids 
and alkaline solutions. They may be 
employed with stamps, types or stencil 
plates, by which greater neatness will be 
secured than can be obtained with either 
a brush or pen. 

The following is a superior prepara- 
tion for laundry use: 

Aniline oil S5 parts 

Potassium chlorate. , . 5 parts 
Distilled water. .... . . 44 parts 

Hydrochloric acid, 
pure (specific grav- 

ity, 1.124) 68 parts 

Copper chloride, pure 6 parts 
Mix the aniline oil, k P ota ™jL t 

of the water, add the «™ al " d \/ d the 

ch lTS> C iZ°naM on '£ -at« bath, 
whole to ttie Aiquiu acquires a 

and heat the ^ mixture ^ iQtQ \ flask 
fine red- violet co ^; ound _ g i ass stopper, 
with a well-fitting S^un" b f or several 
close tightly ..^f J s rethrow down 

Lior^SSi^ahamcon- 

tai Thisink must be ™^^ 

and is «P7^£l££r.o well foi 
fabrics, but does in ox uge{ , 
silk or woolen goods, vvn ^ 



,!l ~ 1°Jp rprl but on washing 

wl «orXifes r r d or en export- 



the air, becomes a deep dead black 
The following is a modification ot tne 
foregoing: 

Blue Indelible Ink.— This ink has the 
reputation of resisting not only water 
and oil, but alcohol, oxalic acid, alkalies, 
the chlorides, etc. It is prepared as fol- 
lows: Dissolve 4 parts of gum lac in 6b 
parts of boiling water carrying 2 parts 
of borax. Filter and set aside. -Now 
dissolve 2 parts of gum arabic in 4 parts 
of water and add the solution to the 
filtrate. Finally, after the solution is 
quite cold, add 2 parts of powdered 
indigo and dissolve by agitation. Let 
stand for several hours, then decant, and 
put in small bottles. 

Red Indelible Inks.— By proceeding 
according to the following formula, an 
intense purple-red color may be pro- 
duced on fabrics, which is indelible m 
the customary sense of the word: 

1. — Sodium carbonate . . 3 drachms 

Gum arabic. 3 drachms 

Water 12 drachms 

g. — Platinic chloride 1 drachm 

Distilled water 2 ounces 

3. — Stannous chloride. . . 1 drachm 
Distilled water 4 drachms 

Moisten the place to be written upon 
with No. 1 and rub a warm iron over it 
until dry; then write with No. 2, ana, 
when dry, moisten with No. 3. An 
intense and beautiful purple-red color is 
porduced in this way. A very rich 
purple color — the purple of Cassiiis-^ -- 
may be produced by substituting a solu- 
tion oE gold chloride for the platinic 
chloride in the above formula. 

Crimson Indelible Ink. — 

The following formula makes an indelible 
crimson ink: 

Silver nitrate 50 parts 

Sodium carbonate, 

crystal . . . 75 parts 

Tartaric acid 16 parts 

Carmine 1 part 

Ammonia water, 

strongest 288 parts 

Sugar, white, crystal- 
lized 36 parts 

Gum arabic, pow- 
dered 60 parts 

Distilled water, 
quantity sufficient 

to make 400 parts 

Dissolve the silver nitrate and the 
sodium carbonate separately, each in a 
portion of the distilled water, mix the 
solutions, collect the precipitate on " 



filter, wash, and put the w as h e d p recm : 
tate, still moist, into a mortar T t 
add the tartaric acid, and rub to e ° et \ 
until eftervescence ceases Now v 
solve the carmine in the ammonia wat^ 
(winch latter should be of specific 
ity .882, or contain 34 per cent of ' 
monia), filter, and add the filtrate to rt 
silver tartrate magma in the mort 
Add the sugar and gum arabic rub i 
together, and add gradually, with cot? 
stant agitation, sufficient distilled wm. 
to make 400 parts. atei 

Gold Indelible Ink.— Make two sola 
tions as follows: 

1, — Chloride of gold and 

sodium J p ar ^ 

Water 10 parts 

Gum A p ar t 3 

2. — Oxalic acid ....... 1 part 

Water 5 parts 

Gum 2 parts 

The cloth or stuff to be written on 
should be moistened with liquid Xo. 2. 
Let dry, and then write upon the pre- 
pared place with liquid No. 1, using 
preferably a quill pen. Pass a hot iron 
over the mark, pressing heavily. 

INDIA, CHINA, OR JAPAN INK. 

Ink by these names is based on lamp- 
black, and prepared in various ways. 
Many makes flow less easily from the 
pen than other inks, and are less durable 
than ink that writes paler and afterwards 
turns black. The ink is usually unfitted 
for steel pens, but applies well with a 
brush. 

I. — Lampblack (finest) is , ground 
to a paste with very weak liquor oi 
potassa, and this paste is then ohfiusal 
through water slightly alkalized witii p- 
tassa, after which it is collected, washed 
with clean water, and dried; ™ e V 
powder is next levigated to a s mootn, 
stiff paste, with a strong filtered deco 
tion of carrageen or Irish moss, ° 
quince seed, a few drops of es sen 
musk, and about half as much essM f 
of ambergris being added, by ™* 
perfume, toward the end of the F . ^ 
the mass is, lastly, molded i lU ° chinese 
which are ornamented wiUl t0e y 
characters and devices, as soon 

are dry and hard. . tin 

II. —A weak solution of fine B ^ & 
is boiled at a high temperature 
digester for 2 hours, and thei i in f - A is 
vessel for 1 hour more. 1** l l0 per 
next filtered and evaporated to ^ 
consistency, either m a steam 



INKS 



407 



tj) _ bath. It is, lastly, made into a 

Tste Sbrfore, with lampblack which 
Kfleen previously heated to dull red- 
S s a " well-closed crucible Neither 
Sf the above gelatinizes m cold weather, 
Uke the ordinary imitations. 

To Keep India Ink Liquid.— If one has 
to work with the ink for some time, a 
=mall piece should be dissolved in warm 
SSrand the tenth part of glycerine 
Tdded, which mixes intimately with the 
fah after shaking for a short time. India 
t thu. prepay -k f p^W^ 



in 



a "corked 1 bottle, and if a black jell} 
should form in the cold it is quickly difl- 
solved by heating- The ink flows well 
from the pen and does not wipe. 

INK POWDERS AND LOZENGES. 

Anv of these powders may, by the ad- 
dition of mucilage of gum arable, be 
made into lozenges or buttons— the ink 
buttons" or "ink stones" m use abroad 
and much affected by travelers. 

The following makes a good service- 
able black ink, on macerating the pow- 
der in 100 times its weight ot ram or 
distilled water for a few days: 
I,— Powdered gallnuts . . 16 parts 

Gum arabic 8 parts 

Cloves 1 P art 

Iron sulphate 10 P arts 

Put into an earthenware or glass 
vessel, cover with 100 parts of ram or 
distilled water, and set aside for 10 days 
or 2 weeks, giving an occasional shake 
the first 3 or 4 days. Decant and bottle 

for use. , . 

The following is ready for use instant- 
ly on being dissolved in water: 

H._Aleppo gallnuts 84 parts 

Dutch Madder 6 parts ^ 

Powder, mix, moisten, and pack into 
the percolator. Extract with hot water, 
filter, and press out. To the filtrate add 
4 parts of iron acetate (or pyroacetate) 
and 2* parts of tincture of mdigo. i>ut 
into the water bath and evaporate to dry- 
ness and powder the dry residue. 

LITHOGRAPHIC INKS. 

These are for writing on lithographic 
stones or plates: 

I — Mastie (in tears), 8 ounces; shel- 
lac, 12 ounces; Venice turpentine, 1 
ounce. Melt together, add wax, 1 
pound; tallow, 6 ounces. When dis- 
solved, add hard tallow soap (m _ shav- 
ings), 6 ounces; and when the whole is 
perfectly combined, add lampblack 4 
ounces. Mix well, cool a little. «nd then 



pour it into molds, or upon a slab, and 
when cold cut it into square pieces. 

II. (Lasteyrie). — Dry tallow soap, 
mastic (in tears), and common soda (in 
fine powder), of each, 30 parts; shellac, 
150 parts; lampblack, IS parts. Mix as 
indicated in Formula I. 

MARKING OR LABELING INKS: 
Black Marking Inks. — 

I. — Borax 60 parts 

Shellac 180 parts 

Boiling water 1,000 parts 

Lampblack, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the borax in the water, add 
the shellac to the solution and stir until 
dissolved. Rub up a little lampblack 
with sufficient of the liquid to form a 
paste, and add the rest of the solution a 
little at a time and with constant rubbing. 
Test, and if not black enough, repeat the 
operation. To get the best effect— a 
pure jet-black— the lampblack should b 
purified and freed from the calcium 
phosphate always present m the com 
mercial article to the extent, frequently, 
of 85 to 87 per cent, by treating wrt 
hydrochloric acid and washing wi 
water. 

II.— An ink that nothing will bleach l 
made by mixing pyrogallic acid and sal 
phate of iron in equal parts. Particu 
farly useful for marking labels on bottle 
containing acids. Varnish the labe 
after the Ink is dry so that moisture w 
not affect it. 

COLORED MARKING INKS: 

Eosine Red. — 

EosineB v 1 drachm 

Solution of mercuric ^ 

Mfeada::: ^ T 

Rectified spirit jounces 

Oil of lavender gouges 

Distilled water 8 ounces 



ve tne eosine i« ■■■>■- — 

and finally make up. 

Orange-- dr&chm 

Aniline orange g drachms 

Sugar - . - - - - • • ■ - 4 ounces 

Distilled water to 



Blue.— 



** ■ ui,„ 3 . . 1 drachm 

I._Resorcm blue g d chmS 

Distilled water ° « ra 

Mix and agitate occasionally for S 
hours, then add: 




INKS 



Hot distilled water... 24 ounces 

0*alioacid.,. 10 grains 

Sugar s 

Shake well. This and other nnihne 
inks can be perfumed by rubbing up a 
drop of attar of rose with the sugar be- 
fore dissolving it in the hot water. 

IT— A solid blue ink, or marking 
paste, to be used with a brush or sten- 
ciling is made as follows: bheilae A 
ounces; borax, % ounces; water 25 
ounces : gum arabic, % ounces; and ul- 
SlmSnl, sufficient. Boil the borax 
and shellac in some of the water till they 
are dissolved, and withdraw from the 
fire When the solution has become 
cold, add the rest of the 25 ounces of 
water, and the ultramarine When it is 
to be used with the stencil, it must be 
made thicker than when it is to be 
applied with a marking brush. 

HI. _ln a suitable kettle mix well, 
stirring constantly, 50 parts of houid 
logwood extract (80 per cent) with 3 
parts of spirit previously mingled with 1 
part of hydrochloric acid, maintaining a 
temperature of 08° F. Dissolve 5 parts 
of potassium chromate in 15 parts of 
boiling water; to this add 10 parts of 
hydrochloric acid, and pour this mixture, 
after raising the temperature to about 
86° F., very slowly and with constant 
stirring into the kettle. Then heat the 
whole to 185° F. This mass, which has 
now assumed the nature of an extract, is 
stirred a little longer, and next 15 parts of 
dextrin mixed with 10 parts of fine 
white earth (white bole) are added. 
The whole is well stirred throughout. 
Transfer the mass from the kettle into a 
crusher, where it is thoroughly worked 
through. 

PRINTING INKS. 

Black printing inks owe their color to 
finely divided carbon made from lamp- 
black, pine-wood, rosin oil, etc., ac- 
cording to the quality of the ink desired. 
The finest inks are made from flame- 
lampblack. There are, however, cer- 
tain requirements made of all printing 
inks alike, and these arc as follows: 
The ink must be a thick and homoge- 
neous liquid, it must contain no solid 
matter but finely divided carbon, and 
every drop when examined microscopic- 
ally must appear as a clear liquid con- 
taining black grains uniformly distrib- 
uted. 

The consistency of a printing ink must 
be such that it passes on to the printing 
rollers at the proper rate. It will be 



obvious that various consistencies 
demanded according to the nature of \v 
machine used by the printer. F or 
rotary machine which prints many thoif 
sands of copies an hour a much tluW" 
ink will be necessary than that requiJJ 
for art printing or for slow presses a 
regards color, ordinary printing i^L 
should be a pure black. For economy's 
sake, however, newspaper printers often 
use an ink so diluted that it does not look 
deep black, but a grayish black, espe- 
cially in large type. 

The question of the time that the ink 
takes to dry on the paper is a very impor, 
tant one, especially with ink used for 
printing newspapers which are folded 
and piled at one operation. If then the 
ink does not dry very quickly, the whole 
impression smudges and "sets off" so 
much that it becomes illegible in places. 
Although it is essential to have a quick 
drying ink for this purpose, it, is danger- 
ous to go too far, for a too quickly drying 
ink would make the paper stick to the 
forms and tear it. A last condition which 
must be fulfilled by a good printing ink 
is that it must be easy of removal from 
the type, which has to be used again. 

No one composition will answer every 
purpose and a number of different inks 
are required. Makers of printing inks 
are obliged, therefore, to work from de- 
finite recipes so as to be able to turn 
out exactly the same ink again and again. 
They make newspaper ink for rotary 
presses, book-printing inks, half-tone 
inks, art inks, etc. As the recipes have 
been attained only by long, laborious, 
and costly experiments, it is obvious that 
the makers are not disposed to commu- 
nicate them, and the recipes that are 
offered and published must be l° okta 
upon with caution, as many of t hem * 
of little or no value. In the recip es 
given below for printing mks, the oi 
fntention is to give hints of the general 
composition, and the practical man . . 
easily discover what, if Wj??ffi£ 



have to be made in the recipe 



special purpose. , . M1flJ1 . 

Many different materials for » JS 
ufacture are given in recipes, so 
in fact, that it is impossible to m ^ 



S o ta^m 

[set . 

• i The IW" 

what use they are in the ink. * u 
lowing is a list of the articles c?™? ^ 
in use for the manufacture oi F 1 
ink: „ , ;+hout 

Boiled linseed oil, boded 
driers. ,. ... ^nii °f 

Rosin oil from the dry distil^ 10 
rosin. . _ nine 

Rosin itself, especially American y 
rosin. 



INKS 



409 



g oap , usually rosin-soap, but occa- 
sionally ordinary soap. 

Smpblack and various other pig- 

m Ry S the most time-hunored method, 
linseed oil was very slowly heated over 
in open fire until" it ignited. It was 
allowed to burn for a time and then ex- 
tinguished by putting a lid on the pot. 
Tn this wav a liquid was obtained of a 
j"k brown or black color with par- 
ticles of carbon, and with a consistency 
varving with the period of heating, being 
thicker, the longer the heating was con- 
tinued. If necessary, the liquid was 
then thinned with unboiled, or only very 
slightly boiled, linseed oil. Lampblack 
in the proper quantity was added and the 
mixture was finally rubbed up on a stone 
in small quantities at a time to make it 
uniform. 

Boiling the Linseed Oil.— This process, 
although it goes by the name of boiling, 
is not so in the proper sense of the word, 
hut a heating having for its object an 
initial oxidation of the oil, so that it will 
dry better. Linseed oil is a type of the 
drying oils, those which when exposed m 
thin coats to the air absorb large quan- 
tities of oxygen and are thereby coh- 
verted into tough, solid sheets having 
properties very similar to those of soit 
India rubber. The process goes on much 
faster with the aid of heat than at the or- 
dinary temperature, and the rate _ at 
which the boiled oil will dry in the ink 
can be exactly regulated by beating it for 
a longer or shorter time. Prolonged 
heating gives an oil which will dry very 
quickly on exposure in thin coats to the 
air, the shorter the heating the more 
slowly will the ink afterwards made with 
the oil dry, , 

Linseed oil must always be boiled, m 
vessels where it has plenty of room, as 
the oil soon swells up and it begins to de- 
compose so energetically at a particular 
temperature that there is considerable 
risk of its boiling over and catching fire. 
Various contrivane.es have been thought 
out for boiling large quantities of the oil 
with safety, such as pans with an outlet 
pipe in the side, through which the oil 
escapes when it rises too high instead of 
over the edge of the pan, and fires built 
on a trolley running on rails, so that they 
can at once be moved from under the 
pan if there is any probability of the 
fatter boiling over. The best apparatus 
for preparing thickened linseed oil is 
undoubtedly one in which the oil offers a 
very large surface to the air, and on that 
account requires to be moderately heated 



only. The oil soon becomes very thick 
under these conditions and if necessary 
can be diluted to any required consist- 
ency with unboiled oil. 

In boiling linseed oil down to the 
proper thickness by the old method there 
are two points demanding special atten- 
tion. One is the liability of the oil to boil 
over, and the other consists in the devel- 
opment of large quantities of vapor, most- 
ly of acroleine, which have amostpower- 
ful and disagreeable smell, and an intense 
action upon the eyes. The attendant 
must be protected from these fumes, and 
the boiling must therefore be done where 
there is a strong draught to take the 
fumes as fast as they are produced. 
There are various contrivances to cope 
with boiling over. 

Savage's Printing Ink. — Pure balsa 
of copaiba, 9 ounces; lampblack, 3 ounces, 
indigo and Prussian blue, each 5 drachms; 
drachms; Indian red, % ounce; yellovv 
soap, 3 ounces. Mix, and grind to th 
utmost smoothness. 

Toning Black Inks. — Printers' ink 
consisting solely of purified^ lampbhie 
and vehicle give, of course, impression 
which are pure black. It is, however 
well known that a black which has to 
practiced eye a tinge of blue in it loo 
much better than a pure black. T 
make such an ink many makers mix th 
lampblack with a blue pigment, which is 
added in very fine powder before the nrst 
grinding. Prussian blue is the pigment 
usually chosen and gives very attractive 
results. Prussian blue is, however not 
a remarkable stable substance, and is 
very apt to turn brown from the forma- 
tion of ferric oxide. Hence an ink made 
with Prussian blue, although it may look 
very fine at first, often assumes a dull 
brown hue in the course oi time, ex- 
cellent substitutes for Prussian blue are 
to be found in the Induline blues. 1 hese 
are very fast dyes, and inks tinted J ith 
them do not change color As pure , in 
Hirm is now made artificially and sold at 

with purified lampblack. 



To Give Dark Inks a Bronze or 
Changeable Hue.-Dissolve 1* pounds 
^ g r P lKc in 1 gallon 65 per cent 




410 



INKS 



they will be found to have a rich bronze 
or changeable hue. 

Quick Dryer for Inks Used on Book- 

^b^^^LnS 

with 1 pound of good cut ink. 

INKS FOR STAMP PADS. 

The ink used on vulcanized rubber 



1IIPS should be such that when ap 
pHeTto a suitable pad it remams sui£- 
ciently fluid to adhere to the stamp. 



the same time the fluidity should cease 
by thcTime the stamp is pressed upon an 
absorbing surface such as paper, *or- 
meriy these inks were made by rubbing 
up pigments in fat to a paste. Such inks 
c£i hardly be prevented, however, from 
making impressions surrounded by a 
Sea y markcaused by the fat spreading 
in the pores of the paper. . Now, mosL 
damping inks are made without grease 
and a properly prepared stamping ink 
contains nothing but g ycerine and coal- 
tar dye. As nearly all these dyes dis- 
solve in hot glycerine the process ot 
manufacture is simple enough. J. he 
dye, Euchsine, methyl violet, water blue, 
emerald green, etc., is put into a thin 
porcelain dish over which concentrated 
glycerine is poured, and the whole is 
heated to nearly 212° F. with constant 
stirring. It is important to use no more 
glycerine than is necessary to keep the 
dye dissolved when the ink is cold. If 
the mass turns gritty on cooling it must 
be heated up with more glycerine till 
solution is perfect. 

In dealing with coal-tar dyes insoluble 
in glycerine, or nearly so, dissolve them 
first in the least possible quantity of 
strong, hot alcohol. Then add the glyc- 
erine and heat till the spirit is evapo- 
rated. 

To see whether the ink is properly 
made spread some of it on a strip of 
cloth and try it with a rubber stamp. 
On paper, the separate letters must be 
quite sharp and distinct. If they run 
at the edges there is too much glycerine 
in the ink and more dye must be added 
to it. If, on the contrary, the impres- 
sion is indistinct and weak, the ink is too 
thick and must be diluted by carefully 
adding glycerine. 

Aniline colors are usually employed 
as the tinting agents. The following is 
a typical formula, the product being a 
black ink: 

1. — Nigrosin S parts 

Water 15 parts 



Alcohol 15 parts 

Glycerine 70 p arts 

Dissolve the nigrosin in the alcohol 
add the glycerine previously mixed with 
the water, and rub well together. 

Nigrosin is a term applied to several 
compounds of the same series which 
differ in solubility. In the place of 
these compounds it is probable that a 
mixture would answer to produce black 
as suggested by Hans Wilder for making 
writing ink. His formula for the mix- 
ture is: 

II. — Methyl violet 3 parts 

Bengal green 5 parts 

Bismarck green 4 parts 

A quantity of this mixture should be 
taken equivalent to the amount of nigro- 
sin directed. These colors are freely 
soluble in water, and yield a deep green- 
ish-black solution. 

The aniline compound known as 
brilliant green answers in place of Bengal 
green. As to the permanency of color of 
this or any aniline ink, no guarantee is 
offered. There are comparatively tew 
coloring substances that _ can be con- 
sidered permanent even in a qualified 
sense. Among these, charcoal takes a 
foremost place. Lampblack remains 
indefinitely unaltered. This, ground 
very finely with glycerine, would yield 
an 'ink which would perhaps prove serv- 
iceable in stamping; but it would be 
liable to rub off to a greater extent than 
soluble colors which penetrate the paper 
more or less. Perhaps castor oil *ouW 
prove a better vehicle for insoluble dj 
matters. Almost any, aniline, coloi 



ing 
m 



p matters. Aimosi <*iv. • ■ ih( , 

may be substituted for nigrosin in the 
foregoing formula, and blue, green, red 
purple, and other inks obtained. U 



.i million 

The following is said to b« JJJ*™ 
that will give color P^f^^ aS tic 



purple, and otner u m » » — - . , t0 
soluble pigments might also be jade 
answer as suggested for lamf blacky 

It 

,„,;...: of~a boxTlled with an 
composition, saturated wit' * o3 e for 
color. The cushion fulfils c0ll - 

which is drawn 
and cont" 

acYas a "color stamp cushion so J<H»».,; nn 



years without being renewed, aJw»J 
tains sufficient moisture, y' 0 "; ueS to 
from the atmosphere, and cont 

;>lor s 
remnant of the 
remains in the box or ree ^ i r;""^f. sl n* 
cushion or pad is too soft : tfl >Db ^ flllt 
porting, but should be heia fa coVe r- 
pan, and have a permanent ci ^ 

HI. — The composition eons'S 
erably of 1 part gelatin, IP color ing 
6 parts glycerine and b P* , c&n be 
matter. A suitable black cow 




INKS 



411 



made from the following materials. One 
™ rt gelatin glue, 3 parts lampblack, 
Sine black, ox a suitable quantity of 
.oJwood extract, 10 parts of glycerine, 
l g nlrt absolute alcohol, 8 parts water, 
1 P par Venetian soap, * part salicylic 
* ci §. For red, bine, or violet: One part 
Satin glue, B parts aniline of desired 
Folur 1 part absolute alcohol, 10 parts 
glycerine" 1 part Venetian soap, and 1 
part salicylic acid. 

The following are additional recipes 
used for this purpose: 

TV —Mix and dissolve 2 to 4 drachms 
aniline violet, 15 ounces alcohol, 15 
ounces glycerine. The solution js poured 
on the cushion and rubbed in with 
A hrush The general method of pre- 
paring the pad 1 to swell the gel atrn 
with cold water, then boil and add the 
glycerine, etc. 

y_M3x well 16 pounds of hot lin- 
seed oil, 3 ounces of powdered indigo, or 
a like quantity of Berlin blue, and 8 
pounds of lampblack. For ordinary 
iien stamping an ink without the indigo 
might be used. By substituting ultra- 
marine or Prussian blue for the lamp- 
black, a blue "ink" or pamt would 
result. 

Inks for Hand Stamps.— As an excip- 
ient for oily inks, a mixture of castor 
oil and crude oleic acid, in parts varying 
according to the coloring material used, 
is admirable. The following are ex- 
amples: 

Black.— Oil soluble nigrosin and crude 
oleic acid in equal parts. Add 7 to 8 
parts of castor oil. 

Red.— Oil soluble aniline red, 2 parts; 
crude oleic acid, 3 parts; castor oil, 
from 30 to GO parts, according to the in- 
tensity of color desired. 

Red.— Dissolve J ounce of carmine in 
2 ounces strong water of ammonia, and 
add 1 drachm of glycerine and f ounce 
dextrin. 

jjjue.— Rub 1 ouncePrussian blue with 
enough water to make a perfectly smooth 
paste; then add 1 ounce dextrin, incor- 
porate it well, and finally add sufficient 
water to bring it to the proper consis- 
tency. 

Blue.— Oil soluble aniline blue, 1 part; 
crude oleic acid, 2 parts; castor oil, 30 
to 32 parts. 

Violet.— Alcohol, 15 ounces; glycer- 
ine, 15 ounces; aniline violet, 2 to 4> 
drachms. Mix, dissolve, pour the solu- 
tion on the cushion, and dab on with a 
brush. 



Color Stamps for Rough Paper. — It 

has hitherto been impossible to get a 
satisfactory application for printing with 
rubber stamps on rough paper. Fatty 
vehicles are necessary for such paper, 
and they injure the India rubber. It is 
said, however, that if the rubber is first 
soaked in a solution of glue, and then in 
one of tannin, or bichromate of potash, 
it becomes impervious to the oils or fats. 
Gum arabic can be substituted for the 
glue. 

Indelible Hand-Stamp Ink. — 

I, — Copper sulphate 20 parts 

Aniline chlorate .... 20 parts 

Rub up separately to a fine powder, 
then carefully mix, and add 10 parts o 
dextrin and incorporate. Add 5 parts 
of glycerine and rub up, adding water, a 
little at a time, until a homogeneous 
viscid mass is obtained. An anilin 
color is produced in the material, whic" 
boiling does not destroy. 

II. — Sodium carbonate . . 22 parts 

Glycerine. 85 parts 

Gum arabic, in pow- 
der 20 parts 

Silver nitrate 11 parts 

Ammonia water. ... 20 parts 
Venetian turpentine 10 parts 
Triturate the carbonate of sodiu 
eum arabic, and glycerine together, 
a separate flask dissolve the silver ultra 
in the ammonia water, mix the soJuti 
with the triturate, and heat to boiirn 
when the turpentine is to be added, wi 
constant stirring. After stamping e 
pose to the sunlight or use a hot iro 
The quantity of glycerine may be van 
to suit circumstances. 



White Stamping Inkfor Embroidery. 
Zincwhite ?5;£ S 

waSr ag ?::: :::::::: « drachm 

Triturate the zinc white with a am 
mintitv of water till quite smooth th 
2dd ST mucilage and the remainder 
the water. 

STENCIL INKS. 

L-Dissolve 1 ounce of g™*?^\ 
6 ounces w.tjr. and* ^jj^ ^ T 

S: c k ag p e owd F ered 5 ind ground with 
Diactv, F h . me fineness; tor Hi 

mucilage, to ^ne n m&nn 
ultramarine is used in in } . 

a«k! itaf . '» s chrome yello 
=W™n ground too thick the, are .iien 



412 



INKS 



with a little water. Apply with a small 

brush. , - x ■ 

IT —Triturate together 1 pmt pine 
soot 'and 2 pints Prussian blue with a 
liSe Glycerine, then add 3 pints gum 
arable and sufficient glycerine to form a 
thin paste. 

Blue Stencil Inks.— The basis of the 
stencil inks commonly used varies to 
some extent, some preferring a mixture 
of pigments with oils, and others a 
watery shellac basis. The basis: 

I.— Shellac * ounces 

Borax U ounces 

Water 10 ounces 

Boil together until 10 ounces of solu- 
tion is obtained. The coloring: 

Prussian blue 1 ounce 

China clay 4 ounce 

Powdered acacia. . . h ounce 
Mix thoroughly and gradually incor 
porate the shellac solution. 

II.— Prussian blue 2 ounces 

Lampblack 1 ounce 

Gum arable. .. . 3 ounces 

Glycerine, sufficient. 
Triturate together the dry powders 
and then make into a suitable paste with 
•glycerine. 

Indelible Stencil Inks. — I . — Varnish 
such as is used for ordinary printing ink, 
1 pound; black sulphuret of mercury, 1 
pound; nitrate of silver, 1 ounce; sul- 
phate of iron, 1 ounce; lampblack, 3 
tablespoonfuls. Grind all well together; 
thin with spirits turpentine as desired. 

II. — Sulphate of manganese, 2 parts; 
lampblack, 1 part; sugar, 4 parts; all in 
fine powder and triturated to a paste in 
a little water. 

III. — Nitrate of silver, \ ounce; water, 
f ounce. Dissolve, add as much of the 
strongest liquor of ammonia as will 
dissolve the precipitate formed on its 
first addition. Then add of mucilage, 
1^ drachms, and a little sap green, syrup 
isi buckthorn, or finely powdered indigo, 
to color. This turns black on being 
held near the fire, or touched with a hot 
iron. 

SYMPATHETIC IRKS: 

Table of Substances Used in Ilaking 
Sympathetic Inks.— 

For writing and for bringing out the 
writing: 

Cobalt chl oride, heat. 
Cobalt acetate and a little saltpeter, 
heat. 



Cobalt chloride and nickel chloride 
mixed, heat. 

Nitric acid, heat. 
Sulphuric acid, heat. 
Sodium chloride, heat. 
Saltpeter, heat. 

Copper sulphate and ammonium 
chloride, heat. 

Silver nitrate, sunlight. 
Gold trichloride, sunlight. 
Ferric sulphate, infusion of gallnuts 
or ferroeyanide of potassium. 

Copper sulphate, ferroeyanide of 
potassium. 

Lead vinegar, hydrogen sulphide. 
Mercuric nitrate, hydrogen sulphide. 
Starch water, tincture of iodine or 
iodine vapors. 

Cobalt nitrate, oxalic acid. 
Fowler's solution, copper nitrate. 
Soda lye or sodium carbonate, phenol- 
phthaleine. 

A sympathetic ink is one that is in- 
visible when written, but which can he 
made visible by some treatment. Com- 
mon milk can" be used for writing, and 
exposure to strong heat will scorch and 
render the dried milk characters visible. 

The following inks are developed by 
exposure to the action of reagents: 

I. — Upon writing with a very clear 
solution of starch on paper that contains 
but little sizing, and submitting the dry 
characters to the vapor of lodme (or 
passing over them a weak solution ot 
potassium iodide), the writing becomes 
blue, and disappears under the action 
of a solution of hyposulphite of soda 
(1 in 1,000). 

II. —Characters written with a weafi 
solution of the soluble chloride of plati- 
num or iridium become black wnen_ m 
paper is submitted to mercurial vapw. 
This ink may be used for marking linen, 
as it is indelible. .. , 

III. -Sulphate of copper in very ■ di mt 
solution will produce an invisible wnung 
which may be turned light blue Dy ▼* i 

of ammonia. . y 

IV. -Soluble compounds of 

will become red by hydrogen suip 

Vap0r - j rt f arsenic 

V. — Soluble compounds or « 
and of peroxide of tin will become J 

by the same vapor. wide 

VI. — An acid solution of iron cn tffl 
is diluted until the writing « > 
when dry. This writing has to - 

erty of becoming red by *f s id- 

vapors (arising from the a et ic ' van jde 
phuric acid on potassium B . l [[ p A -- v pe^3 
in a long-necked flask), and it dis^f 



INKS 



41 



by ammonia, and may alternately be 
made to appear and disappear by these 
two vapors. 

yjj Write with a solution of paraf- 

fine in benzol. When the solvent has 
evaporated, the paraffine is invisible, but 
becomes visible on being dusted with 
lampblack or powdered graphite or 
smoking over a candle flame. 

yill. — Dissolve 1 part of a lead salt, 
0 1 part of uranium acetate, and the same 
ouantity of bismuth citrate in 100 parts 
of water. Then add, drop by drop, a 
solution of sal ammoniac until the whole 
becomes transparent. Afterward*, mix 
with a few drops of gum arable. _ lo 
reveal the characters traced with this ink, 
expose them to the fumes of sulpnuric 
acid, which turns them immediately to a 
dark brown. The characters fade away 
in a few minutes, but can be renewed by 
a slight washing with very dilute nitric 
acid. 

TYPEWRITER RIBBON INKS. 

I, —Take vaseline (petrolatum) of high 
boiling point, melt it on a water bath or 
slow fire, and incorporate by constant 
stirring as much lamp or powdered drop 
black as it will take up without becom- 
ing granular. If the vaseline remains 
in excess, the print is liable to have a 
greasy outline; if the color is in excess, 
the print will not be clear. Remove the 
mixture from the fire, and while it is 
cooling mix equal parts of petroleum, 
benzine, and rectified oil of turpentine, m 
which dissolve the fatty ink, introduced 
in small portions, by constant agitation. 
The volatile solvents should be in such 
quantity that the fluid ink is of the con- 
sistence of fresh oil paint. One secret of 
success lies in the proper application of 
the ink to the ribbon. Wind the ribbon 
on a piece of cardboard, spread on a 
table several layers of newspaper, then 
unwind the ribbon in such lengths as 
may be most convenient, and lay it flat 
on the paper. Apply the ink, after agi- 
tation, by means of a soft brush, and 
rub it well into the interstices of the rib- 
bon with a toothbrush. Hardly any ink 
should remain visible on the surface. 
For colored inks use Prussian blue, red 
lead, etc., and especially the aniline 
colors. 

II.— Aniline black . . $ ounce 

Pure alcohol 15 ounces 

Concentrated glycer- 
ine 15 ounces 

Dissolve the aniline black in the alco- 
add the glycerine. Ink as be- 



fore. The aniline inks containing glyc- 
erine are copying inks. 

HI-— Alcohol _ , a ounces 

Aniline color J ounce 

Water g ounces 

Glycerine 4 ounces 

Dissolve the aniline in the alcohol and 

add the water and glycerine. 

IV. — Castor oil 2 ounces 

Cassia oil. £ ounce 

Carbolic acid \ ounce 

Warm them together and add 1 ounce 
of aniline color. Indelible typewriter 
inks may be made by using lampblac' 
in place of the aniline, mixing it with sof 
petrolatum and dissolving the coole 
mass in a mixture of equal parts of ben 
zine and turpentine. 

COLORING AGENTS: 
Red.— 

I. — Bordeaux red, O, S. 15 parts 

Aniline red, O. S 15 parts 

Crude oleic acid. ... 45 parts 
Castor oil enough to make 1,00 
parts 

Rub the colors up with the oleic acid, 
add the oil, warming the whole to 100° 
to 110° F. (not higher), under constant 
stirring. If the color is not sufficiently 
intense for your purposes, rub up a trifle 
more of it with oleic acid, and add it to 
the ink. By a little experimentation you 
can get an ink exactly to your desire in 
the matter. 

Blue -Black. — 

II. —Aniline black, O. S.. 5 parts 

Oleic acid, crude.... Sparta 
Castor oil, quantity sufficient to 
100 parts. 

Violet.— 
Ill—Aniline violet, O.S.. Spars 
Crude oleic acid.... * parts 
Castor oil, quantity sufficient to 
100 parts. 
The penetration of the ink may be 
incTeieK Ubiium by the additmn of a 
few drops of absolute alcohol, or, better, 
of benzol. 

T? P «nkuie —For reinkmg ribbons use 

Tm- b U ounce . Tn«n&tad V 
■^■i™* aniline black in 

SrS-M the. 

This ink i» also good for rubber stamp 
pads. 



WRITING INKS. . 

The common writing fluids depend 

for coionnfc. ^ mQSt re _ 

ESS SiveTeSWe-d together here: 
t _^Aleppo galls (well bruised), 4 
ouncesf En ioft water 1 quart; mac- 
erate in a clean corked 



> - ! ' 1 bottle -ft 1 ** 10 

^dissolved in a wineglasrfiU of watery 
i mmces: lump sugar, $ ounce, iviuv 
Ull and afterward further add of 
sulphate of iron (green copperas crushed 
F m ilAiinpes Agitate occasionally 
S^'or^sTyTwheS the ink may be 
decanted for Ise, but is better - d the 
whole is left to digest together for 2 or 3 
weeks When time is an object, the 
whole of the ingredients may at once be 
puTinto a bottle, and the latter agta ed 
Saily until the ink is made; and boiling 
water instead of cold water may be em- 
ployed. Product, 1 quart of excellent 
Ink, writing pale at first, but soon turn- 
ing intensely black. 

II —Aleppo galls (bruised), 12 pounds; 
soft water, 6 gallons. Boil in a copper 
vessel for 1 hour, adding more water 
to make up for the portion lost by evap- 
oration; strain, and again boil the galls 
with water, 4 gallons, for i hour; strain 
off the liquor, and boil a third time 
with water, %\ gallons, and strain. Mix 
the several liquors, and while still hot 
add of green copperas (coarsely pow- 
dered), 4 \ pounds; gum arabic (bruised 
small), 4* pounds. Agitate until dis- 
solved, and after defecation strain through 
a hair sieve, and keep in a bunged cask 
for use. Product, 12 gallons. 

III.— Aleppo galls (bruised), _ 14 
pounds; gum, 5 pounds. Put them in a 
small cask, and add boiling soft water, 
15 gallons. Allow the whole to macer- 
ate, with frequent agitation, for a fort- 
night, then further add of green cop- 
peras, 5 pounds, dissolved in water, 7 
pints. Again mix well, and agitate the 
whole once daily for 2 or 3 weeks. Prod- 
uct, 15 gallons. 

Brown Ink. — I. — To make brown ink, 
use for coloring a strong decoction of 
catechu; the shade may be varied by the 
cautious addition of a little weak solution 
of bichromate of potash. 

U. — A strong decoction of logwood, 
with a very little bichromate of potash. 

Blue Ink, — To make bine ink, sub- 
stitute for the black coloring sulphate of 



indigo and dilute it with water till it n ro , 
duces the required color. 

Antic orrosive or Asiatic Ink.— 1.^, 
Galls, 4 pounds; logwood, 2 pounds- 
pomegranate peel, 2 pounds; soft water' 
5 gallons. Boil as usual; then add to 
the strained, decanted cold liquor, l 
pound of gum arabic, lump sugar or sugar 
candy, \ pound; dissolved in water, S 
pints. Product, 45s gallons. Writes pale, 
but flows well from the pen, and soon, 
darkens, 

II. — Bruised galls, 14 pounds; gum, 
5 pounds. Put them in a small cask] 
and add of boiling water, 15 gallons, 
Allow the whole to macerate, with fre- 
quent agitation, for 2 weeks, then 
further add green copperas, 5 pounds, 
dissolved in 7 pints water. Again mix 
well, and agitate the whole daily for 2 or 
3 weeks. 



Blue -Black Ink. — Blue Aleppo galls 
(free from insect perforations), 4 i ■ ounces; 
bruised cloves, 1 drachm; cold water, 
40 ounces; purified sulphate of iron, 
l\ ounces; pure sulphuric acid (by 
measure), 35 minims; sulphate of in- 
digo (in the form of a paste), which 
should be neutral, or nearly so, 1 ounce. 
The weights used are avoirdupois, and 
the measures apothecaries'. Place the 
galls, then bruised with the cloves, in a 
5()-ounce bottle, pour upon them the 
water, and digest often daily shaking 
for a fortnight. Then fil er through 
paper in another 50-ounce bottle, w 
out also the refuse galls, and wrmg out 
of it the remaining liquid through • 
strong, clean linen or cotto, > c otMgo 
the filter, m order that as a ? » dis _ 
may be lost Next put in the iron 
solve completely, and niter 
paper. Then the acid, and Jo 
L4ly. Lastly the ^f^X^hoh 
oughly mix by shale ing. t ass ^ 
through paper; J^^£$fll. * 
tie into another until tne 

finished. ; g prop* 1 " 

Note.-No gum or sugar 1 ^ be 
and on no account must t in g t 
omitted. When intended or i ^ 
Si ounces of galls is the qui gmj^ ly 
the large scale this fine ink 
percolation. colol9 
Colored Inks. -Inks i of van n £ 
may be made from a strong ^ ^ 
the ingredients used m f^^ceu^d 
with a little alum or other «W» ^ of 
as a mordant, and gum ar ']" '^ployed 
the ordinary water-color ^J^ter 
in drawing diffused through * 



also be used for colored uafc- 



INKS 



415 



COPYING INK. 

This is usually prepared by adding a 
Htde /ugar to ordinary black ink, which 
or thTs purpose should be very rich m 

1 a nd preferably made galls pre^ 
pared by heat. Writing executed with 
fbis hik may be copied within he space 
* 5 or 6 hours, by passing it through a 
copvin" pre^ in contact with thin un- 
S?d paper, .lightly damped, enclosed 
between 2 sheets of thick oiled or waxed 
ItZl when a reversed transcript will be 
Sbtained, which will read in proper order 
when the back of the copy a turned up- 
wards. In the absence of a press a copy 
may be taken, when the ink » good and 
Se writing very recent, by rolling the 
slieets duly arranged on a ruler, over the 

u face of a flat, smooth table, employing 
as much force as possible, and avoiding 
any slipping or crumbling of the paper. 
Another method is to pass a warm fla - 
iron over the paper laid upon the writ- 
ing. The following proportions are em- 
ployed: 

J_ Sugar candy or lump sugar, 1 
ounce; or molasses or moist sugar, L t 
ounces; rich black ink, I J pints; dis- 
solve. 

II.— Malt wort, 1 pint; evaporate it to 
the consistence of a syrup, and then dis- 
solve it in good black ink, 11 pints. 

HI.— Solazza juice, 3 ounces; mild 
ale, \ pint; dissolve, strain, and triturate 
with" lampblack (previously heated to 
dull redness in a covered vessel), \ ounce ] 
when the mixture is complete, add of 
strong black, 14 pints; mix well, and m 

2 or 3 hours decant the clear. 
After making the above mixtures, 

they must be tried with a common steel 
pen, and if they do not flow freely, some 
more unprepared ink should be added 
until they are found to do so. 

Alizarine Blue.— In 20 parts of fuming 
sulphuric acid dissolve 5 parts of indigo, 
and to the solution add 100 parts of ex- 
tract of aqueous myrobalous and 10.5 
parts iron filings or turning shavings. 
Finally add: 

Gum arabic 1.5 parts 

Sugar 7. 5 parts 

Sulphuric acid, 66° 

B , 10.5 parts 

Aniline blue 1-5 parts 

Carbolic acid 0.5 parts 

Mirobalan extract to make 1,000 
parts. 

This ink v/hen first used has a bluish 
tint, afterwards becoming black. 

Alizarine Green.— In 100 parts of 
aqueous extract of gall apples dissolve 



Iron sulphate 30 parts 

Copper sulphate 0.5 parts 

Sulpnurie acid 2 parts 

Sugar 8 parts 

Wood vinegar, recti- 
fied ^ 50 parts 

Indigo carmine 30 parts 

Copying Ink for Copying Without a 
Press. — An ordinary thin-paper copying 
book may be used, and the copying done 
by transference. It is only necessary 
to place the page of writing m the letter 
book, just as one would use a leaf of blot- 
ting paper. The superfluous ink that 
would go into the blotting paper goes on 
to the leaf of the letter book, and show- 
ing through the thin paper gives on the 
other side of the leaf a perfect transcrip' 
of the letter. Any excess of ink on th 
page, either of the letter or of the copy 
mg paper, is removed by placing a shee 
of blotting paper between them, and run 
ning one's hand firmly over the whole i 
the ordinary manner. This ready tran 
scription is accomplished by using in 1 
which dries slowly. Obviously the m 
must dry sufficiently slowly for the 
characters at the top of a page of writing 
to remain wet when the last line is being 
written, while it must dry sufficiently to 
preclude any chance of the copied page 
being smeared while subsequent pages 
are being covered. The drying must 
also be sufficiently rapid to prevent the 
characters "setting off," as printers term 
it from one page on to another alter 
folding. The formula for the requisite 
ink is very simple: . . 

Reduce by evaporation 10 volumes of 
any good ink to 6, then add 4 volume, 
of llj cerine. Or manufacture some ink 
of nearly double strength, and add to any 
quantity of it nearly an equal volume of 
glycerine. 

Gold Ink-Mosaic gold, 8 part»iPj 
arable, 1 part; rubbed up to a proper 
condition. 

Green Ink. — A good, bright green, 
anSni may be made as follows: 

Aniline green (solu- g ^ 

k le) -'' . 16 parts 

Mucilage of gum ara- ^ ^ 

Dissolve thVaniline in the afcohol .»d 

add the but ««Sdi«S 

gum arabic P'f^rf ' i" (Nelson) i* 



416 



INKS 



Hectograph Inks (see also Hectograph). 
T —Black.— Methyl violet, 10 parts; 
S'ositi 20 parts; glycerine, 30 parts; 
Srabic, /parts; alcohol, 60 parts. 
tt —Blue. — Resorein blue M, 10 parts. 
Dissolve by means of heat in a mix- 
ture of: 

Dilute acetic acid .... 1 part 

Distilled water 85 parts 

Glycerine 4 P arts 

Alcohol, 90 per cent . . 10 parts 

HI —Green.— Aniline green, water 
solution, 15 parts; glycerine, 10 parts; 
Water, SO parts; alcohol, 10 parts. 

Paste Ink to Write with Water. — L— 
Black.— Take 4 parts of bichromate of 
potash, pulverized, and mixed with 25 
parts of acetic acid; 50 parts of liquid 
extract of logwood; I part of picric acid; 
10 parts of pulverized sal sorrel; 10 parts 
of mucilage; and \ part of citrate of iron, 
and mix well. The liquid extract of 
logwood is prepared by mixing 3 parts of 
an extract of common commercial qual- 
ity with 2 parts of water. 

H. — Red. — Take 1 part of red aniline 
mixed with 10 parts of acetic acid; 5 
E>arts of citric acid, and 25 parts of 
mucilage, all well mixed. For use, mix 
part of the paste with 16 parts of 
ater. 

III. — Blue.— -Take 2 parts of aniline 
alue mixed with 10 parts of acetic acid; 
5 parts of citric acid, and 40 parts of 
mucilage, all well mixed. For use, mix 
1 part of the paste with 8 parts of water. 

IV. — Violet. — Use the same ingre- 
dients in the same proportions as blue, 
with the difference that violet aniline is 

sed instead of blue aniline. 

V. — Green.— Take 1 part of aniline 
pe; 3 parts of picric acid, mixed with 

0_ parts of acetic acid; 3 parts of citric 
acid, and 80 parts of mucilage. For 
use, 1 part of this paste is mixed with 8 
parts of water. 

yi*— Copying.— Take 6 parts of pul- 
verized bichromate of potash, mixed 
with 10 parts of acetic acid and 240 
P *}? S of liquid extract of logwood, and 
add a pulverized mixture of 35 parte of 
alum 20 parts of sal sorrel, and 20 parts 
mucilage. Mix well. For use, 1 part 
o» this paste is mixed with 4 parts of hot 
water. 

Purple Ink.— I.— A strong decoetion 
5, 10 £7°od, to which a little alum or 
cmoride of tin has been added. 

II- (Normandy),— To 12 pounds of 
vximpeachy wood add as many gallons 



of boiling water. Pour the solvit' 
through a funnel with a strainer marl** 
coarse flannel, or 1 pound of hydrate 
acetate of deutoxide of copper fi ? r 
powdered (having at the bottom of W 
funnel a Piece of sponge); then a d5 
immediately 14 pounds of alum 



add 

every 340 gallons of liquid"' a^d «„ 
pounds of gum arable or gum senecal 
Let these remain for 3 or 4 days and 
beautiful purple color will be produced* 
Red Ink. — Brazil wood, ground 4 
ounces; white wine vinegar, hot, l 1 pints 
Digest in a glass or a well-tinned copper 
or enamel saucepan, until the next dav- 
then gently simmer for half an hour 
adding toward the end gum arable and 
alum, of each, £ ounce. 

Inks for Shading Pen.— The essential 
feature in the ink for use with a shading 
pen is_ simply the addition of a sufficient 
quantity of acacia or other mucilaginous 
substance to impart a proper degree of 
consistency to the ink. A mixture of 2 
parts of mucilage of acacia with 8 of ink 
gives about the required consistency. 
The following formulas will probably be 
found useful: 

I. — Water-soluble nigro- 

sin , 1 part 

Water 9 parts 

Mucilage acacia. ... 1 part 

II. — Paris violet 2 parts 

W ater 6 parts 

Mucilage acacia. ... 2 parts 

III. — Methyl violet 1 part 

Distilled water 7 parts 

Mucilage acacia. ... 2 parts 

IV. — Bordeaux red 3 parts 

Alcohol 2 parts 

Water 20 parts 

Mucilage acacia. ... 2 parts 

V. — Rosaniline acetate . . 2 parts 

Alcohol. , 1 part 

Water 10 parts 

Mucilage acacia. ... 2 parts 
Silver Ink. — I. — Triturate in a mortar 
equal parts of silver foil and sulphate ot 
potassa, until reduced to a fine powder; 
then wash the salt out, and mix the resi- 
due with a mucilage of equal parts or 
gum arabic water. 

II. — Make as gold ink, but use silver 
leaf or silver bronze powder. 

III.— Oxide of zinc 30 grains 

Mucilage ..... 1 ounce 

Spirit of wine 40 drops 

Silver bronze S drachms 

Rub together, until perfectly smooth- 



INKS — INSECT BITES 



411 



thP zinc and mucilage, then add the 
Sirit of wine and silver bronze and make 
u P p tt quantity to 2 ounce, with water. 

Violet Ink. — L— For 2 gallons, heat 
* S ofXhol on a water bath. Add 
? thl a cohol 2 ounces of violet aniline, 
?nd sti -tiU dissolved; then add the mix- 
ture to i gallons of boiling water; mix 
SS and ^ is ready for use. Smaller 
quantities in proportion. 
M tt ^Another good violet ink is made 
bv dissolving some violet aniline m water 
& which some alcohol has been added. 
I? takes very little aniline to make a large 
quantity of the ink. 



add the mucilage and the remainder of 

the water. 

INK — LUMINOUS: 

y 3 dram phosphorous 
y s ounce oil cinnamon 
Mix in phial, cork tightly and heat 
slowly until mixed. This ink can be read 
in the dark. 

Note. — This ink is poisonous. Phos- 
phorous is also inflammable and must be 
handled with a wood or glass spoon, 
never with the bare hands, 



White Ink (for other White Inks, see 
Blueprint Inks). -So-called white mks 
are properly speaking white paints, as a 
5h tc solution cannot be made. A paint 
Jui able for use as an "ink" may be made 
bv grinding zinc oxide very fine on a slab 
with a little tragacanth mucilage and 
then thinning to the required consistency 
£ flow froJW pen. .The mixture re- 
quires shaking or stirring from time to 
time to keep the pigment from separating. 
The "ink" mav be preserved by_ adding a 
little oil of cloves or other antiseptic to 
prevent decomposition of the mucilage. 

White marks may sometimes be made 
on colored papers by the application ot 
acids or alkalies. The result of course, 
depends on the nature of the coloring 
matter in each instance, and any ink 
of this kind would be efficacious or other- 
wise, according to the coloring present in 
the paper. 

Yellow Ink. — I . — Gamboge (in coarse 
powder), 1 ounce; hot water 5 ounces. 
Dissolve, and when cold, add of spirit, 
f ounce. 

XI —Boil French berries, J pound, 
and 'alum, 1 ounce, in rain water, 1 
quart, for 4 an hour, or longer, then 
strain and dissolve in the hot liquor gum 
arabic, 1 ounce. 

Waterproof Ink (see also Indelible 
Inks) —Any ordinary ink may be made 
waterproof by mixing with it a little 
ordinary glue. After waterproofing ink 
in this way it is possible to wash draw- 
ings with soap and water, if necessary, 
without the ink running at all. 
White Stamping Ink. — 

Zinc white 2 drachms 

White precipitate .... 6 grams 

Mucilage 1 drachm 

Water 6 drachms 

Triturate the zinc white with a small 
quantity of water till quite smooth, tlien 



INLAYING BY ELECTROLYSIS. 

See also Electro-etching, under Etching. 

The process consists in engraving the 
design by means of the sand-blast an J 
stencils on the surface of the article. 
The design or pattern is rendered con 
ductive and upon this conductive surf ac 
a precipitate of gold, silver, platinum 
etc., is applied, and fills up the hollows 
Subsequently the surface is groun 
smooth. 



Insect Bites 

REMEDIES FOR INSECT BITES. 

I.— Carbolic acid 15 grains 



Glycerine 2 

Rose water * 



drach 
ounces 



30 
30 
1 



drachm 
ounces 

drachm 

ounce 

ounce 

grains 
grains 
ounce 



II —Salicylic acid 15 grams 

Collodion ?H raC t m " 

Spirit of ammonia . . 64 drachms 

HI.— Fluid extract rhus 

toxicodendron 1 

Water y 

IV.— Ipecac, in powder. . 1 

Alcohol J 

Ether 

V. — Betanaphthol 

Camphor 

Lanolin cold cream 
ttt Q^irlt of sal ammoniac, 

pain and swelling due to sucn ^ , ^ 

still fresh, " B SS' add a drop of 

ashes upon the par • * u £* * ine , orcof- 
water-in case of n^d beer, ^ ^ 

fee may be use d ™JjJ* ^ 
resulting paste th °™ugmy as hes of 
It is pre(erableto use ire s ^ 
tobacco becaujeth fj^ ute freedoul 

f ffiC1? "ourit es nt The action of the to- 
& asC f due to the presence of 



ains 
•ains 
ince 

wb ose 



potassium carbonate, which, like spirit 
of sal ammoniac, deadens the effect of 
the small quantities of acid (formic acid, 
etc.) which have been introduced into the 
small wound by the biting insect. 

Insecticides 

(See also Petroleum.) 

The Use of Hydrocyanic Acid Gas for 
Exterminating Household Insects. — Re- 
cent successful applications of hydro- 
cyanic acid gas for the extermination of 
insects infecting greenhouse plants have 
suggested the use of the same remedy for 
household pests. It is now an established 
fact that 1J grains of 98 per cent pure 
cyanide of potassium volatilized m a 
cubic foot of space, will, if allowed to 
remain for a period of not less than 3 
hours, kill all roaches and similar in- 
sects. 

It may be stated that a dwelling, 
>ffice, warehouse, or any building may 
je economically cleared of all pests, 
provided that the local conditions will 
permit the use of this gas. It probably 
Would be dangerous to fumigate a 
building where groceries, dried fruits, 
meats, or prepared food materials of any 
kind are stored. Air containing more 
than 25 per cent of the gas is inflam- 
lable; therefore it would be well to put 
all fire in an inclosure before fumi- 
gating. Hydrocyanic acid, in all its 
torms, is one of the most violent poisons 
mown and no neglect should attend its 
se. J. here is probably no sure remedy 
ir its efrects after it has once entered the 
load of any of the higher animals, 
'hen cyanide of potassium is being used 
should never be allowed to come in 
ontact with the skin, and even a slight 

ISu 0 ^ 6 gaS should be avoided. 
>noi Id the operator have any cut or 

t should be carefully covered with eourt- 
31 aster to prevent the gas coming in con- 
ic t with the flesh, o% a small^aVtide 
JmJtoi com 3°und getting i«to the 
-Sut e ??Se deatl1 ^ ******* in a 

dolX^f 11 ^^ Sll ° uld not be us «d 
.alls between, ^ith single 



Vf *?> aS , more or less °f the gas 
II penetrate a brick wall. An inex?e! 
cl person should never use cyanid< 



lence 

fou^^ f °T an m^- - !., 
1 fo 
irk : 

of '•'•'•"(•••i'-Hi: officials. Ex- 



practicable to treat buildings in 
ie woU i,? 1 «?™ination of infects, 
1 SSsSS if d be d ° ne onl 3' unJ er the 
-nments have shown that a small. 



dose and a shorter period of exposure ate 
required to kill mice than for roaches and 
household insects generally, and it read 
ily follows^ that the larger animals and 
human bemgs would be more quicklv 
overcome than mice, since a smalle 
supply of pure air would be required to 
sustain life in mice, and small opening 
are more numerous than large ones 

The materials employed and the meth- 
od of procedure are as follows: After 
ascertaining the cubic content of the 
inclosure, provide a glass or stoneware 
(not metal) vessel of 2 to 4 gallons capac- 
ity for each 5,000 cubic feet of space to 
be fumigated. Distribute the jars ac- 
cording to the space, and run a smooth 
cord from each jar to a common point 
near an outside door where they may all 
be fastened; support the cord above the 
jar by means of the back of a chair or 
other convenient object in such a position 
that when the load^ of cyanide of potas- 
sium is attached it will hang directly 
over the center of the jar. Next weigh 
out upon a piece of soft paper about 17 
ounces of 98 per cent pure cyanide of 
potassium, using a large pair of forceps 
tor handling the lumps; wrap up and 
place in a paper bag and tie to the end of 
the cord over the jar. After the load 
for each jar has been similarly provided, 
it is well to test the working of the cords 
to see that they do not catch or bind. 
Then remove the jar a short distance 
from under the load of cyanide and place 
in it a little more than a quart of water, 
to which slowly add 1A pints of commer- 
cial sulphuric acid, stirring freely. The 
action of the acid will bring the temper- 
ature of the combination almost to the 
boiling point. Replace the jars beneath 
the bags of cyanide, spreading a large 
sheet of heavy paper on the floor to catch 
any acid that may possibly fly over the 
edge of the jar when the cyanide is 
dropped, or as a result of the violent 
chemical action which follows. Close 
all outside openings and open up the 
interior of the apartment as much as 
possible, in order that the full strength of 
the gas may reach the hiding places of 
the insects. See that all entrances are 
Jacked or guarded on the outside to pre- 
vent persons entering; then leave the 
budding, releasing the cords as you go. 
lhe gas will all be given off in a few 
minutes, and should remain in the 

Wi ing M least 3 hours - 

When the sulphuric acid comes in 

contact with the cvanide of potassium 

the result is the formation of sulphate of 

potash, which remains in the. jar, and the 

Hydrocyanic acid is liberated and es- 




INSECTICIDES 



„ B fnto the air. The chemical action 
ffffySSit i to cause a sputtering, and 
LnnentlT particles of the acid are 
Sn over?he sides of the jar; this may 
? € prevented by supporting a sheet of 
K/rfaper over the ar by means of a 
hnle !J the center, through which the 
I martins the cyanide oi potassium 
f s °lssed P so tlat when the cord is re- 
\Jsed the paper will descend with the 
^nide and remain at rest on the top of 
Iffr but will not prevent the easy 
lleent of the cyanide into the acid 
The weight of this paper will in no way 
iuterfere with the escape of the gas 

At the end of the time required for 
* -J+^t, the windows and doors 
Soufd be "opined from the outside and 
the gas allowed to escape before anyone 
enters the building. A general cleaning 
S ould follow, as the insects leave .their 
h d ng places and, dying on the floors 
are easily swept up and burned I he 
sulphate of potash remaining in the jars 
L poisonous and should be immcdia ely 
huned and the jars themselves felled 
S earTi or ashes. No food that -has 
remained during fumigation, should be 
used, and thorough ventilation should 
be maintained for several hours. After 
one of these experiments it was noted 
that ice water which bad remained m a 
closed cooler had taken up the gas, and 
had both the odor and taste of cyanide. 

For dwellings one fumigation each 
year would be sufficient, but for storage 
houses it may be necessary to make an 
application every 3 or 4 months to keep 
them entirely free from insect pests. 
The cost of materials for one application 
is about 50 cents for each 5,000 cubic 
feet of space to be treated. The cyanide 
of potassium can be purchased at about 
35 cents per pound, and the commercial 
sulphuric acid at about 4 cents per pound. 
The strength of the dose may be in- 
creased and the time of exposure some- 
what shortened, but this increases the 
cost and does not do the work so thor- 
oughly. In no case, however, should the 
dose remain less than 1 hour. 

The application of this method ot 
controlling household insects and pests 
Generally is to be found in checking the 
advance of great numbers of some par- 
ticular insect, or in eradicating them 
where they have become thoroughly 
established. This method will be found 
very advantageous in clearing old build- 
ings and ships of cockroaches. 

APPLICATIONS FOR CATTLE, POUL- 
TRY, ETC.: 

rinary Formulas. 



Fly Protectives for Animals. — 

I. — Oil of cloves 3 parts 

Bay oil 6 parts 

Eucalyptus tincture 5 parts 

Alcohol 150 part3 

Water 200 parts 

II. — Tar well diluted with grease of 
any kind is as effective an agent as any 
for keeping flies from cattle. The mix- 
ture indicated has the advantage of being 
cheap. Applying to the legs, neck, and 
ears will usually be sufficient. 



Parts 

by 
■weight. 



Cattle Dip for Ticks. — Dr. Noorgard of 
the Bureau of Animal Industry finds the 
following dip useful, immersion lasting 
one minute: 

Sulphur. 80 pounds 

Extra dynamo oil . . 1,000 gallons 

Insecticides for Animals.— 

L _Bayoil ■ ... 500 "1 

Naphthalene . . . . 100 | 

Camphor 60 

Animal oil • 25 

II.— Bay oil, pressed. . ■ 400 

Naphthalene 100 

Crude carbolic acid 10 
For Dogs, Cats, etc.— The following is 
an excellent powder for the removal oi 
fleas from cats or dogs: 

Naphthalene . . 4 av. ounces 

Starch 12 av. ounces 

Reduce to fine powder. ^ A few grains 
of lampblack added will impart a lighl 
gray color, and if desirable a few drop 
of oil of pennyroyal or eucalyptus will 
disguise the naphthalene odor. 

Rub into the skin of the animal an< 
let the powder remain for a day or two 
when fife same -n be removed fevcomt 
ina- or eiving a bath, to wJnen souk 
infusion of quassia or quassia chips hi 
been aSded This treatment is equal! 
efficient for lice and ticks. 

Prmltrv Lice Destroyer.— L—Twent 

the nest for use. 

TI nf pncalvptus smeared abou 

v "-"JPill cause the parasites to leave 

& 8& * 1 ° f tL nCStS la? hT 

bee n emptied and into .^.^ , 
anserted a bit o v 

a concentrated solution 
^.rfStabSo. to which phenol fa, 



420 



INSECTICIDES 



Boil together and add: 

Camphor in small 
pieces 



TTT -Cover the floor or soil of the house 
wi" gTound or powdered plaster, taken 
from old walls, etc. 
AHT DESTROYERS: 

A most efficacious means of getting nd 
ftX is spraying their resorts with pe- 
SjJSSi ff/ ommo.! oil is worth more 
Ifthi? purpose than the refined. Two 
thorough sprayings usually suffice. 
th In afinofres; dressing cases, etc., oil of 
t.,roentine should be employed. Pour 
STS large plate, and. let pon£ 
freely. Tobacco juice is another ertect 
ve agent, but bo A substances have the 
drlwBack of a very penetrating and dis- 

aB S3S wl?e r ; is deadly to ants wherever 
it can be used (as in the garden, or yard 
around the house). So is carbon disul- 
phide injected into the nests by aid of a 
good, big syringe. An emulsion ot pe- 
troleum and water (oil, 1 part; water, 3 
parts) poured on the earth has proven 
very efficacious, when plentifully used 
(say from 1 ounce to 3 ounces to the 
square yard). A similar mixture of cal- 
cium sulphide and water (calcium sul- 
phide, 100 parts; water, 1,000 parts; and 
the white of 1 egg to every quart of water) 
poured into their holes is also effective. 

A weak solution of corrosive sublimate 
is very deadly to ants. Not only does it 
kill them eventually, but it seems to 
craze them before death, so that ants of 
the same nest, after coming into contact 
with the poison, will attack each other 
with the greatest ferocity. 

Where ants select a particular point 
for their incursions it is a good plan to 
surround it with a "fortification" of ob- 
noxious substance. Sulphur has been 
used successfully in this way, and so has 
coal oil. The latter, however, is not a 
desirable agent, leaving a persistent stain 
and odor. 

The use of carbon disulphide is rec- 
ommended to destroy ants' nests on 
lawns. A little of the disulphide is 
poured mto the openings of the hills, 
stepping -on each as it is treated to close 
it up. rhe volatile vapors of the disul- 
phide will penetrate the chambers of the 
nest m every direction, and if sufficient 
has been used will kill not only the adult 
insects hut the larv* as well. A single 
treatment is generally sufficient. 
Formulas to Drive Ants Away — 

I— Water x t 

Ca P ealoes 4 ounces 



ounces 



II. — Powdered cloves. ,. . \ 

Insect powder i 0Un « 

Scatter around where ants infest 

HL-Cape aloes * pound 

Water...... 4 pint3 a 

Boil together and add camphor CllTn 
S ounces. Sprinkle around where ih* 
ants infest. ltle 

BEDBUG DESTROYERS. 

A good bug killer is benzine, p ure and 
simple, or mixed with a little oil of mirbane 
It evaporates quickly and leaves no stain 
The only trouble is the infianimability 0 f 
its vapor. 

The following is a popular prepara- 
tion: To half a gallon of kerosene oil 
add a quart of spirit of turpentine and an 
ounce of oil of pennyroyal. This mix- 
ture is far less dangerous than benzine, 
The pennyroyal as well as the turpentine 
are not only poisonous but exceedingly 
distasteful to insects of all kinds. The 
kerosene while less quickly fatal to brigs 
than benzine is cheaper and safer, and 
when combined with the other ingre- 
dients becomes as efficient. 

Where the wall paper and wood work 
of a room have become invaded, the 
usual remedy is burning sulphur. To 
be efficient the room must have every 
door, window, crevice, and crack closed. 
The floor should be wet in advance so 
as to moisten the air. A rubber tube 
should lead from the burning sulphur to 
a kev-hole or auger-hole and through i% 
and by aid of a pair of bellows air should 
be blown to facilitate the combustion of 
the sulphur. 

Pastes, —Some housewives are partial 
to corrosive sublimate for bedbugs; but 
it is effective only if the bug eats the poison. 
The corrosive sublimate cannot P^W 
the waxy coat of the insect. But w»J 
much as* people insist on having tin 
few formulas are given. 

L-Common soap 1 aV ' olince 

Ammonium chlo- 

ride 3 av. ounces 

Corrosive sublimate 8 a* fluid . 
Water enough to make W 

OUaCeS ' «A add 

Dissolve the salts in the water ana 

the soap. . . „ fln be 

This will make a paste that ea ^ 
painted with a brush arouno ^ ^ 
cracks and crevices. Bes ldeS * {he 
make an excellent filling ,t° K - £ f r ec 
cracks of the wall and wainscot 
from bugs of all kinds. ^£jt tb e uS<! 



could be modified so as to pe 



INSECTICIDES 



I ris green or London purple, if tfe- 
sired A g decoction of quassia^could be 
used to dissolve the soap. The latter 
oaste would, of course, not be poisonous, 
Kd in many instances it would be pre- 
ferred It ^ possible to make a cold in- 
us on of White hellebore of 25 per cent 
length, and in 1 quart of mlunon J 
SJ ve 1 ounce of common soap. The ad- 
vantage of the soap paste is simply to 
Sep tie poisonous substance thoroughly 
Sbuted throughout the mass at all 
rimes The density of the paste can be 
varied to suit. Kerosene oil or turpentine 
could replace 6 ounces or 8 ounces of the 
water in making the paste f*d of 
Jese would make a valuable addition. 

Another paste preparation which will 
meet with hearty recommendation is 
Sue ointment. This ointment, mixed 
with turpentine or kerosene oil, can be 
used to good advantage; especially so as 
the turpentine is so penetrating that both 
it and the mercury have a chance to act 
more effectually. It can be said that 
turpentine will kill the bedbug if the two 
come in contact; and kerosene is not tar 
behindhand in its deadly work. 

II —Blue ointment 1 ounce 

Turpentine 3 ounces 

Stir well together. 

Liquid Bedbug Preparations.— There 
is no doubt that the liquid form is the 
best to use; unlike a powder, or even a 
paste, it will follow down a crack into 
remote places where bugs hide, and will 
prevent their escape, and it will also kill 
the eggs and nits. The following sub- 
stances are the most employed, and are 
probably the best: Kerosene, turpentine, 
benzine, carbolic acid, corrosive subli- 
mate solution, oil pennyroyal, and strong 
solution of soap. Here are several good 
formulas that can be depended upon: 

I. — Oil of pennyroyal ... 1 drachm 

Turpentine 8 ounces 

Kerosene oil, enough to make 1 

gallon. 

Put up in 8-ounce bottles as a bedbug 
exterminator. 

II. — Oil of eucalyptus ... 1 drachm 
Eucalyptus leaves.. . 1 ounce 

Benzine 2 ounces 

Turpentine 2 ounces 

Kerosene enough to make 16 

ounces. 

Mix the turpentine, benzine, and 
kerosene oil, and macerate the eucalyp- 
tus leaves in it for 24 hours; then strain 
and make up the measure to 1 pint, bav- 
in c; first added the oil of eucalyptus. 



FLY -KILLERS. 

A fly poison that is harmless to man 
may be made from quassia wood as fol- 
lows: 

Quassia 1,000 parts 

Molasses 150 parts 

Alcohol SO parts 

Water 5,750 parts 

Macerate the quassia in 500 parts of 
water for £4 hours, boil for half an hour, 
set aside for 24 hours, then press out the 
liquid. Mix this with the molasses and 
e vaporate to 200 parts. Add the alcohol 
and the remaining 750 parts of water, 
and without filtering, saturate absorbent 
paper with it. 

This being set out on a plate with a 
little water attracts the flies, which are 
killed by partaking of the liquid. 

Sticky Preparations. — 

I. — Rosin 150 parts 

Linseed oil 50 parts 

Honey 18 parts 

Melt the rosin and oil together and stir 
in the honey. 

IL— Rapeseed oil TO parts 

Rosin 30 P arts 

Mix and melt together. 

IH.— Rosin 60 P arts 

Linseed oil 38 parts 

Yellow wax 2 parts 

JV. —Rosin 10 parts 

Turpentine 5 parts 

Rapeseedoil 5 parts 

Honey 1 P art 

Sprinkling Powders for Flies.— 

I - L W ppeis, .. p0W : *p»* 
Qu d a efid wo ° d '.. pow : «p»* 

Sugar, powdered.... 10 parte 
Mix, moisten the mixture with * parts 

ing out a sufficient quantity as desireu 
JI._Orria.root, powered * part, 



Mix 
ot box 
flics. 



Starch, powdered.... « 

C K?ep in a closeiy stoppered jar 
1X - Strew in places affected by 



Fly Essences - 

Bergamotoil £ 

Acetic ether £ . 

Cologne water...... parts 

Alcohol, 90 per cent. 100 parts 
Mix. One part of this "essence 



is 



42£ 



INSECTICIDES 



to be added to 10 parts of water and 
sprayed around the rooms frequently. 

II — Eucalyptol 10 parts 

Acetic ether 5 parts 

Cologne water 40 parts 

Tincture of Insect 

powder (1:5).... 50 parts 

REMEDIES AGAINST HUMAN PARA- 
SITES: ' v . , , 

By weight 

I.— Yellow wax 85 parts 

Spermaceti 60 P^ts 

Sweet oil 500 parts 

Melt and add: 

Boiling distilled 

water 150 parts 

After cooling add: 

Clove oil 2 parts 

Thyme oil 3 parts 

Eucalyptus oil 4 parts 

II.— Bav oil, pressed ... 100 parts 

Acetic ether 1£ parts 

Clove oil 4 parts 

Eucalyptus oil 3 parts y 

For Head Lice in Children.— One of 
the best remedies is a vinegar of sabadilla. 
This is prepared as follows: Sabadilla 
seed, 5 parts; alcohol, 5 parts; acetic acid, 

9 parts; and water, 36 parts. Macerate 
for 3 days, express and falter. The direc- 
tions are: Moisten the scalp and hair 
thoroughly at bedtime, binding a cloth 
around the head, and let remain over- 
night. If there are any sore spots on the 
scalp, these should be well greased be- 
fore applying the vinegar. 

To Exterminate Mites. — Mix together 

10 parts of naphthalene, 10 parts of phenic 
acid, 5 parts of camphor, 5 parts of lemon 
oil, 1 parts of thyme oil, 2 parts of oil of 
lavender, and 2 parts of the oil of juniper, 
in 500 parts of pure alcohol. 

Vermin Killer. — 

Sabadilla, powder. . 2 av. ounces 

Acetic acid \ fluidounce 

Wood alcohol 2 fluidounces 

Water sufficient to make 16 fluid 
ounces. 

Mix the acetic acid with 14 fluidounces 
of water and boil the sabadilla in this 
mixture for 5 to 10 minutes, and when 
n j 7 cold add the alcohol, let stand, 
and decant the clear solution and bottle. 
L y»reclions: Shake the bottle and apply 
to the affected parts night and morning. 

INSECTICIDES FOR PLANTS. 

Two formulas for insecticides with 
•special reference to vermin which 
attack plants: 



I. — Kerosene 

Common soap 
Water. ....... 



2 gallop 
i Pound 
■ ■ 1 gallon 
Heat the solution of soap, add it boil 
ing hot to the kerosene and churn until 
it forms a perfect emulsion, For ~j 
upon scale insects it is diluted with ft 
parts of water; upon other ordinary 
insects with 15 parts of water, and upon 
soft insects, like plant lice, with frotn 2(1 
to 25 parts of water. 

For lice, etc., which attack the roots of 
vines and trees the following is recom- 
mended: 

II. — Caustic soda ,5 pounds 

Rosin . 40 pounds 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the soda in 4 gallons of water 
by the aid of heat, add the rosin and 
after it is dissolved and while boiling add 
slowly, enough water to make 50 gallons! 
For use, 1 part of this mixture is diluted 
with 10 parts of water and about 5 gal- 
lons of the product poured into a depres- 
sion near the root of the vine or tree. 

For Cochineal Insects. — An emulsion 
for fumagine (malady of orange trees 
caused by the cochineal insect) and other 
diseases caused by insects is as follows: 

Dissolve, hot, 4 parts of black soap in 
15 parts of hot water. Let cool to 104° 
F., and pour in 10 parts of ordinary 
petroleum, shaking vigorously. Thus 
an emulsion of cafe au lait color is ob- 
tained, which may be preserved in- 
definitely. For employment, each part 
of the emulsion js diluted, according to 
circumstances, with from 10 to 20 parts 
of water. 

For Locusts.— Much trouble is ex- 
perienced in the Transvaal and Isatal 
with locust pests, the remedies used 
being either a soap spray, containing * 
pound ordinary household soap ift • 
gallons of water, or arsenite of soda, , tn 
latter being issued by the government to 
the purpose, and also used for the 
struction of prickly pear, and as a Dawj 
of tick dips. A solution of 1 pouno 
10 gallons of water is employed tor 
grown insects, and of 1 pound I * 
gallons of water for newly hatched oaj* 
1 pound of sugar being * dde S«J S0 J a - 
pound of arsenite dissolved- x g jJ J1) 
tion sometimes causes sores on tn ^ 
and the natives employed in its i ^ ft 
given grease to rub over themseiv 
measure of protection. An aa 
of the arsenite solution over soap 
much less liquid need be used. 0 f 

A composition for the obstruct in 
pear blight, which has been paten« 



INSECTICIDES 



423 



the United States, is as follows: Pepper- 
• T oil 16 parts; ammonia water, 60 

SS; ciiomclfso parts; and Unseed on, 

1,000 parts. 
For Moths and Caterpillars.— 
r —Venice turpentine 200 parts 

Turpentine...... 1« PJ* 

rlrd'" 500 parts 

t< 7i 240 parts 

t, • 50 parts 

tt -£H ws 

Stearin* oil 40 parts 

For Non-Masticating Insect b .— * or 
protect on against all non-masticatmg 
End m ny mandibnlate insects kerosene 
S is much used. It is exhibited in the 
form of emulsion, which may be made as 
follows: 

Kerosene « g allons 

Common soap 8 ounces 

Water 1 S allon 

Dissolve the soap in the -water by the 
aid of heat, bring to .the boding po nt, 
and add the kerosene iB^n^agat. 
in* well after each addition. This is 
conveniently done by means of the pump 
to be used for spraying the mixture. 

For Scale Insects.— For destroying 
scale insects dilute the cochineal emul- 
sion (see above) with 9 times its volume 
of water; in the case of most others, ex- 
cept lice, dilute with 14 volumes, and ior 
the latter with 20 to 25 volumes. _ 

For the extermination of scale insects, 
resinous preparations are also em- 
ployed, which kill by covering them with 
an impervious coating. Such a wasn. 
may be made as follows: 

Rosin ?1 P° un ^ s 

Caustic soda 1 pound 

Fish oil 8 ou £ ces 

Water 20 gallons 

Boil the rosin, soda, and °j 1 ,. witl l, a 
small portion of the water, adding tne 
remainder as solution is effected. 

For the San Jose scale a stronger 
preparation is required, the Proportion 
of water being decreased by half, but 
such a solution is applied only when tne 
tree is dormant. 

Scale Insects on Orange Trees. --Scale 
insect enemies of orange trees are direct- 
ly controlled in two ways: (D By spray- 
ing the infested trees with some : liquid 
insecticide, and (2) by subjecting the™ to 
the fumes of hydrocyanic acid gas, com- 
monly designated as "gassing. A™ 



latter method is claimed to be the most 

effective means known of destroying scale 
insects. In practice the method con- 
sists in closing a tree, at night with a tent 
and filling the latter with the poisonous 
fumes generated by treating refined 
potassium cyanide (98 per cent) with 
commercial sulphuric acid (66 per cent) 
and water. The treatment should con- 
tinue from 30 to 40 minutes, the longe 
time being preferable. The work i 
done at night to avoid the scalding whic 
follows day applications, at least in brigh 
sunshine. 

The oily washes are said to be th 
best for the use by the spraying metho 
"Kerosene emulsion" is a type of thes 
washes. A formula published by the 
United States Department of Agricul- 
ture follows: Kerosene, 2 gallons; whale- 
oil soap, \ pound; water, 1 gallon. The 
soap is dissolved in hot water, the kero- 
sene added, and the whole thoroughly 
emulsified by means of a power pump 
until a rather heavy, creamy emulsion is 
produced. The quantity of soap may 
be increased if desired. The .insecti- 
cide is applied by spraying the infected 
tree with an ordinary force pump with 
spraying nozzle. 

Coating Against the Plant I*™e.- 
(a)— Mix 75 parts of green soap, 50 
parts of linseed oil, and 25 parts of car- 
bolic acid. Afterwards mix the mass 

100 parts water glass. 



Louse Washes.— 

UndUWUo- M £t 

Sulphur ■ • ■ • • 6 75 p ar t s 

lime is slaked and boded I f«J^ rf * wa ter. 

with the sulphur in ' »J£ P£ 

The remainder of the lime is 

and added with the salt to t he H 

ture. The whole s ^g^ju^d to 

half hour or an hour, and tnen ^ 

growth. 

For Slugs on Roses.— 
Powdered pyrcthrum 
T> oW dered colocvnth., 
Powdered hellebore.. 



ts 



S ounce 
4 ounce 
16 ounc 



Flea Ponder-- ^ 

Naphthalene ^ ounce 

Talcum... •• 2 ounc 

Tobacco dust 



424 



INSECT POWDERS 



To Keep Flaxseed Free from Bugs. — 
As a container use a tin can with a close- 
fitting top. At the bottom of the can 
place a small vial of chloroform with a 
foose-fitting cork stopper. Then pour 
the flaxseed, whole or ground, into the 
can, covering the vial. Enough of the 
chloroform will escape from the vial to 
kill such insects as infest the flaxseed. 

INSECT POWDERS. 

Pyrethrum, whale oil (in the form of 
^oap), fish oil (in the form of soap), soft 
soap, paraffine, Prussic acid, Paris green, 
white lead, sulphur, carbon bisulphide, 
acorus calamus, camphor, _ Cayenne 

Sepper, tobacco, snuff, asafetida, white 
ellebore, eucalyptol. quassia, borax, 
acetic ether are most important substances 
used as insecticides, alone, or in combi- 
nation of two or more of them. The 
Prussic acid and Paris green are dan- 
gerous poisons and require to be used 
with extreme care: 

Insect powder is used for all small in- 
sects and as a destroyer of roaches. The 
observations of some experimenters seem 
to show that the poisonous principle of 
these flowers is non-volatile, but the 
most favorable conditions under which 
to use them are in a room tightly closed 
and well warmed. There may be two 
poisonous principles, one of which is vola- 
tile. Disappointment sometimes arises 
in their use from getting powder either 
adulterated, or which has been exposed 
to the air and consequently lost some of 
its efficiency. 

. The dust resulting from the use of 
insect powder sometimes proves irri- 
tating to the mucous membranes of the 
one applying the powder. This is best 
avoided by the use of a spray atomizer 

Persistence in the use of any means is 
an important element in the work of 
octroying msects. A given poison may 
be employed and no visible result follow 
Wnl 7 hei \ ln realit 7 many may have 
:X . d , estr £yed, enougn being left to de- 
ceive the observer as to numbers. Thev 

SSSS? V !f 7 ra P id ! y * t0 °' il mus * be 
t d ' f nd vl S° rous work is re- 
Tel tl° C °? bat - this increase. Where 
holder^ y migrate from one houae- 
in ritv ««? 1 n "- S tQ th0Se of another, as 
ance y t rt t ' l \ requires distant vigi- 
extermiLfe ep - thein 4 ow "' ^ entire 
Th? n^li ? n 13 S ? arce] y to be expected, 
market is Tj P° wder ™ &e 

generally ground tnl^ fiMt j two are 

mercially a led p f r a " COm ~ 
* caued Persian uiseet powder; 



while the third is commonly call^ 
Dalmatian insect powder. These n 0 
ders are sold in the stores under ma " 
names and in combination with oth^ 
powders under proprietary names 

The powder is obtained by crushing th 
dried flowers of the pellitory (pyrethrurnf 
The leaves, too, are oftun used. Th 
are cultivated in the Caucasus, wlien% 
the specific name Caucasicum s 0me 
times used. Pyrethrum belongs to th" 
natural order composite, and is closely 
allied to the chrysanthemum, 
active principle is not a volatile oil % 
stated by some writers, but a rosin 3 
which can be dissolved out from the drv 
flowers by means of ether. The leaves 
also contain this rosin but in smaller 
proportions than the flowers. Tincture 
of _ pyrethrum is made by infusing the 
dried flowers in five times their weight 
of rectified spirit of wine. Diluted with 
water it is used as a lotion. 

Borax powder also makes a very good 
insectiftige. It appears to be particu- 
larly effective against the common or 
kitchen cockroach. Camphor is sometimes 
used, and the powdered dried root of 
acorus calamus, the sweet flag. A mix- 
ture of white lead with four times its 
weight of chalk is also highly recom- 
mended. The fish-oil soaps used in a 
powdered form are made from various 
recipes, of which the following is a typi- 
cal example: 

Powdered rosin 2 pounds 

Caustic soda 8 ounces 

Fish or whale oil .... . 4 ounces 

Boil together in a gallon of water for 
at least an hour, replacing some of the 
water if required. 

The following insect-powder formulas 
are perfectly safe to use. In each in- 
stance insect powder relates to either one 
of the pyrethrum plants powdered, or to 
a mixture: 

I. — Insect powder. ... 8 ounces av. 
Powdered borax. . 8 ounces av. 
Oil of pennyroyal. 2 fluidrachms 

II- — Insect powder. ... S ounces av. 

Borax 8 ounces a v. 

Sulphur. 4 ounces av. 

Oil of eucalyptus. 2 fluidrachms 
This formula is especially good for 
cockroaches: 

HI, — Insect powder. ... 14 ounces av. 
Quassia in fine 

powder 6 ounces av. 

White hellebore, 

powdered 2 ounces av. 



f 

Beetle Powder.— 

Cocoa powder 4 ounces 

Starch 8 ounces 

Borax 37 ounces 

Mix thoroughly. 

Remedies Against Mosquitoes. —A rem- 
edy to keep off mosquitoes, etc , u com- 
posed as follows: Cinnamon oil 1 part; 
mtchouli oil, 1 part; sandal oil, 4 parts; 
alcohol, 400 parts. This has a pleasant 

°' <& of pennyroyal is commonly used 
to keep mosquitoes away. Some form 
of petroleum rubbed on the skm is even 
more efficient, but unpleasant to use, 
and if left on long enough will burn the 

* A 40 per cent solution of formaldehyde 
for mosquito bites gives remarkably 
quick and good results. It should be 
applied to the bites as soon as possible 
with the cork of the bottle, and allowed 
to dry on. Diluted ammonia is also 
used to rub on the bites. 

Roach Exterminators. — Boras, starch, 
and cocoa are said to be the principal in- 
gredients of some of the roach foods on 
the market. A formula for a poison oi 
this class is as follows: 

Borax 37 ounces 

Starch 9 ounces 

Cocoa 4 ounces 

Moth Exterminators. — Cold storage is 
the most effective means of avoiding the 
ravages of moths. Where this is imprac- 
ticable, as in bureau drawers, camphor 
balls may be scattered about with satis- 
factory result. The following is also ef- 
fective : 

Spanish pepper 100 parts 

Turpentine oil 50 parts 

Camphor 25 parts 

Clove oil • • 10 parts 

Alcohol, 96 per cent. 900 parts 
Cut the Spanish pepper into little bits 
and pour over them the alcohol and oil of 
turpentine. Let stand 2 or 3 days, then 
decant, and press out. To the liquid 
thus obtained add the camphor and 
clove oil, let stand a few days, then filter 
and fill into suitable bottles. To use, 
imbibe bits of bibulous paper m the 
liquid and put them m the folds ot 
clothing to he protected. 

Protecting Stuffed Furniture from 
Moths.— The stuffing, no matter whether 
consisting of tow, hair, or fiber, as well 
as the covering, should be coated with a 
10 per cent solution of sulphur in carbon 
*ulphide. The carbon sulphide dis- 



INSECT POWERS— INSULATION 



425 



solves the sulphur so as to cause a very 
fine division and to penetrate the fibers 

completely. 

Powder to Keep Moths Away. — 

Cloves 2 ounces 

Cinnamon bounces 

Mace 2 ounces 

Black pepper 2 ounces 

Orris root. 2 ounces 

Powder coarsely and mix well together. 

Book-Worms. —When these insects 
infest books they are most difficult to 
deal with, as the ordinary destructive 
agents injuriously affect the paper of the 
book. The hooks should be well beaten 
and exposed to the sun, and a rag moist- 
ened with formalin passed through the 
binding and the covers where possible. 
In other cases the bottom edge of the 
binding should be moistened with forma- 
lin before putting on the shelves, so that 
formaldehyde vapor can be diffused. 

INSECT POWDERS: 

Sec Insecticides. 

INSECT TRAP. 

Into a china wash-basin, half filled with 
water, pour a glass of beer; cover the 
basin with a newspaper, in the center of 
which a small round hole is cut. Place 
it sd that the edges of the paper he on 
the floor and the hole is over the center of 
the basin. At night beetles and other in- 
sects, attracted by the smell of beer climb 
the paper and fall through the hole rato 
the liquid. 

INSTRUMENT ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 
INSTRUMENT CLEANING: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

ods. 

INSTRUMENT LACQUER: 

See Lacquers. 

Insulation 

ELECTRIC INSULATION: 
W1 f ^ twj* a narts of asphalt together 

" e i i i o?l of turpentine « required. 
Maintain 3 part, of f^evf 
\ Tt linseed-oil varnish at SUS! 
? Pa , ? 6 hours' next melt 3 parts of 
f °'i „lt nour both substances together. 
; n P d h SaiS "aintain the temperature of 



me 



INSULATION 



<i92° F. for S to 4 hours, and then add 1 
part of linseed-oil varnish and oil of 
turpentine as required. 

ITT —Insulating Varnish for Dynamos 
and Conduits with Low Tension.—SheUac, 
4 parts; sandarac, » parts; linoleic acid, 
3 parts; alcohol, 15 parts. _ 

IV An insulating material which 

contains no caoutchouc is made bv dis- 
solving natural or coal-tar asphalt in 
wood oil, adding sulphur and vulcanizing 
at 572° F The mixture of asphalt and 
wood oil may also be vulcanized with 
chloride of sulphur by the ordinary proc- 
ess used for caoutchouc. Before vul- 
canizing, a solution of rubber scraps in 
naphthalene is sometimes added and the 
naphthalene expelled by a current or 
steam. Substitutes for hard rubber are 
made of natural or artificial asphalt com- 
bined with heavy oil of tar and talc or 
infusorial earth. 

Most of the insulating materials ad- 
vertised under alluring names consist of 
asphalt combined with rosin, tar, and an 
inert powder such as clay or asbestos. 
Some contain graphite, which is a good 
conductor and therefore a very unde- 
sirable ingredient in an insulator. 

INSULATION AGAINST HEAT. 

An asbestos jacket is the usual insu- 
lator for boilers, steampipes, etc. The 
thicker the covering around the steam- 
pipe, the more heat is retained. A 
chief requirement for such protective 
mass is that it contains air in hue chan- 
nels, so that there is no connection with 
the closcd-in air. Most substances 
suitable for insulating are such that they 
can only with difficulty be used for a 
protective mass. The most ordinary 
way is to mix infusorial earth, kieselguhr, 
slag- wool, hair, ground cork, etc., with 
loam or clay, so that this plastic mass may 
be applied moist on the pipes. In using 
such substances care should be taken 
carefully to clean and heat the surfaces 
to be covered. The mass for the first 

C ^j ting 1S made int0 a P aste ky gradual 
addition of water and put on thick 
with a brush. After drying each time 
a further coating is applied. This 
ts repeated until the desired thickness 
is cached. The last layer put on is 
ruhbed smooth with the flat hand, 
finally, strips of linen are wound around, 
whic h is coated with tar or oil paint as a 
protection against outside injuries. Cork 
l C °£ S,S i. of ^shed cork with a 
>^mg agent, and are sold 
Pressed into various shapes. 

Leather Waste Insulation. -Portions 



of leather, such as the fibers of 
leather of any size and form, are fi ♦ 
rendered soft. The surface i s t>. rst 
carded or the surface fibers scratched 
raised in such a manner that when & 
eral pieces are pressed together th ■ 
surface fibers adhere, and a comna *i 
durable piece of leather is produced 
The carding can be done by an ordinal 
batting machine, the action of which i 
so regulated that not only are the pieces 
of leather softened, but the fibers on 
their surfaces raised. The structure of 
the separate piecea of leather remains 
essentially unaltered. The raised fibers 
give the appearance of a furry substance 
to the leather. The batted pieces of 
leather are well mixed with paste or 
some suitable gum, either in or outside 
of the - machine, and are then put into 
specially shaped troughs, where they are 
pressed together into layers of the re- 
quired size and thickness. The separate 
pieces of leather adhere and are matted 
together. An agglutinant, if accessible, 
will contribute materially to the strength 
and durability of the product. The 
layers are dried, rolled, and are then 
ready for use. The pieces need not 
be packed together promiscuously. If 
larger portions of waste can be secured, 
the separate pieces can be arranged one 
upon another in rows. The larger pieces 
can also be used for the top and bottom 
of a leather pad, the middle portion of 
which consists of smaller pieces. 

INSULATION AGAINST MOISTURE, 

WEATHER, ETC. 

Experiments have shown that with the 
aid of red lead a very serviceable, resist- 
ive, and weatherproof insulation material 
may be produced from inferior fibers, to 
take the place, in many cases, of gutta- 
percha and other substances employee 
for insulating purposes, and particularly 
to effect the permanent insulation i « 
aerial conductors exposed to the a en 
of the weather. Hacketbal used for 
purpose any vegetable fiber whicn 
wrapped around the conductors to 
insulated. The fiber is then saturate 
with liquid red lead. The latter is 
complished in the proportion oi * 
parts of red lead, by weight, to 1 pa", j 
weight, of linseed oil, by the hot or ■ co^ 
process, by mere immersion or U 
pressure. All the three substance, 
fiber, oil, and red lead, possess m tn ^ 
selves a certain insulating ?^P n * f ' sUC h 
none of them is alone of utility, to* 
purposes. Even the red lead ml \ e ,j u jd 
linseed oil does not possess in tn " * yer , 
state a high degree of insulating P 



IODINE SOLVENT— IRON 



427 



Only when bath substances, the ingre- 
ffiaata of the linseed oil capable of ab- 
£5b£fi 'oxygen and the ead oxide rich m 
nxvS oxidize in the air, a new gummy 
pgfuct of great insulating capacity 
results. 

INTENSIFIERS: 

See Photography. 
IODINE SOLVENT. 

Iodine is quickly dissolved in oils by 
first rubbing up the iodine .with, one- 
fourth of its weight of potassium iodide 
ami a few drops of glycerine, then adding 
a little oil and rubbing up agaui. The 
addition of the resultant liquid to the rest 
of the oil and a sharp agitation finishes 
the process. 

IODINE SOAP: 

See Soap. 
IODOFORM DEODORIZER. 

Rub the part with about a teaspoonful 
of wine vinegar, after a previous thor- 
ough washing with soap. 

Iron 

(See also Metals and Steel.) 
To Color Iron Blue.— One hundred 
and forty parts of hyposulphite of soda 
are dissolved in 1,000 parts of water; 35 
parts of acetate of lead are dissolved m 
1 000 parts of water; the two solutions 
are mixed, boiled, and the iron is im- 
mersed therein. The metal takes a blue 
color, such as is obtained by heating. 

To Distinguish Iron from Steel. —The 
piece of metal to be tested is washed and 
then plunged into a solution of bichro- 
mate of potash, with the addition or. 
considerable sulphuric acid. In half a 
minute or a minute the metal can be 
taken out, washed, and wiped. Solt 
steels and east iron assume under this 
treatment an ash-gray tint. Tempered 
steels become almost black, without any 
metallic reflection. Puddled and re- 
fined irons remain nearly white and al- 
ways have metallic reflections on the 
part of their surface previously filed, the 
remainder of the surface presenting ir- 
regular blackish spots. 

Another method is to apply a magnet. 
Steel responds much more quickly and 
actively to the magnetic influence than 
does iron. 

Powder for Hardening Iron and Steel. 

—For wrought iron place in the charge 
20 parts, by weight, of common salt; I 
parts, by weight, of potassium cyanide; 
0.3 parts, by weight, of potassium bi- 



chromate; 0.15 parts, by weight, of 
broken glass; and 0.1 part, by weight, of 
potassium nitrate for case-hardening. 
For cooling and hardening cast iron: To 
60 parts, by_ weight, of water add 2.5 
parts, by weight, of vinegar; 3 paTts, by 
weight, of common salt; and 0.25 parts, 
by weight, of hydrochloric acid. 

Preventing the Peeling of Coatings 
for Iron. — To obviate tb<=. scaling of coat- 
ings on iron, if exposed to the attacks of 
the weather, it is advisable to wash the 
iron thoroughly and to paint it next with 
a layer of boiling linseed oil. If thus 
treated, the paint never cracks off. If 
the iron objects are small and can be 
heated, it is advantageous to heat them 
previously and to dip them into linseed 
oil. The boiling oil enters all thepores 
of the metal and drives out the moisture. 
The coating adheres so firmly that frost, 
rain, nor wind can injure it. 

To Soften Iron Castings.— To soften 
hard iron castings, heat the object to a 
high temperature, cover it over with fine 
coal dust or some similar substance, and 
allow it to cool gradually. When the 
articles are of small size, a number of 
them are packed in a crucible with sub- 
stances yielding carbon to iron at a 
Blowing * heat The crucible is then 
tightly closed, and placed m a stove or on 
an open fire. It is gradually heated and 
kept at a red heat for several hours and 
then allowed to cool slowly. Cast-iron 
turnings, carbonate of soda, and unre- 
fined luga* are recommended as sub 
stances suitable for P*^l. m **<*g 
cible with the castings. If unreined 
sugar Ilone is added, the : quantity must 
not be too small. By this process the 
Ton inav be rendered extremely soft. 
To Whiten Iron.-Mix arnmomaca 

= l Sd S thoroughly —a 
the metal heated ^ ™ J 1 ^' L^ihite- 
0 nd it will come .out PJ^f 1D & re shou ] d 

gr^^otS the article ar4 
thus burn it. 



Iron to Nickelplate by Friction*-j 

^TwO^rtl oi titer Afte/the copper 
and 100 P a ™^ Ui med ru b over it, with 

P late h f solution o? ^ « parts tin, 6 parts 
a rag, a solution u i s of 



acid If Anally the object is rubbed with 
that ha/been dipped in finely pul- 
veXfd zinc, a nickel deposit will be made 
th^ ronDer. The thickness of the 
nfckS de?o!t can be increased by re 
SeaSnfi the two last operations. A silver 
SSf can be produced by dissolving 
fcSSy precipitated chloride of silver in 
a solution of h >T osulphite of soda, 1.1 
parts to 10 parts of water, and adding to 
this solution 180 parts spirits of sal am- 
moniac and then stirring in 800 parts of 
finely washed chalk. This mixture is 
applied and rubbed until it dries on the 
object being silvered, and the result is 
a brilliant deposit of pure silver. 

Ivory 

(See also Bones, Shell, and Horn.) 

TO COLOR IVORY: 

Red.— The article is placed for 24 
hours in water, 1,000 parts of which 
carry 100 parts of vinegar (acetic acid, 
6 pur cent), and from 1 to 5 parts of 
aniline red. As soon as it acquires the 
desired color pour off the liquid, let the 
ivory dry, and polish with Vienna lime. 

Black. — Wash the article first in pot- 
ash or soda lye and then put into a 
neutral solution of silver nitrate. Drain 
off the liquid and lay in the direct sun- 
shine. 

Red-Purple. — Put the article in a weak 
solution of triple gold chloride and then 
into direct sunshine. 

Red. — For a different shade of red 
(from the first given), place the article 
for a short time in water weakly acidified 
with nitric acid and then in a solution of 
cochineal in ammonia. 

Yellow. — Leave for several hours in a 
solution of lead acetate, rinse and dry. 
When quite dry place in a solution of 
potassium chr ornate. 

To Color Billiard Balls Red.— 
Fiery Red.— Wash the article first in a 
solution of carbonate of soda, then plunge 
tor a few seconds in a bath of equal parts 
ot water and nitric acid. Remove 
rinse in running water; then put in an 
alcoholic solution of fuchdne and let it 
remain until it is the required color. 

snSf"^ ¥- Clean by washing in the 
sodium carbonate solution, rinse and lay 
for o t PCr Cent sol ution of tin chloride, 
of T m « nts ' n then boi! in a solution 

SS' £ mal] y la y in a solution of 

desfred Slor UnU1 U aSSUmeS the 

"ale H«Z.— Wash in soda solution, rinse 



and lay for 25 minutes in a 6 ^ 
solution of nitric acid, riu 3e , then 1 ^ 



s° tuuu " a ""> uuae, then lav t * 

several minutes in a weak solution I l ? f 
chloride. Finally boil in the foil - tltl 
solution: Carmine, 2 parts; sodium^ 
bonate, 12 parts; water, 200 parts Cai " 



aeeti c 



acid enough to saturate 

Brown.— Apply several coats Q t 
ammomacal solution of potassium r,^ 
manganate. Similar results are I" 
tained if the solution is diluted with 
egar, and the ivory article allowed S 
remain in the liquid for some time. 

Etching on Ivory (see also Etching 
Although decorations on ivory articles" 
such as umbrella handles, cuff-buttons' 
fans, book -covers, boxes, etc., are sen' 
erally engraved, the work is frequently 
done by etching. The patterns must be 
very delicate, and are executed in lines 
only. The simplest way is to cover the 
surface with a thin rosin varnish. Then 
transfer the pattern and scratch it out ac- 
curately with a pointed needle. Otherwise 
proceed same as in etching on metal and 
stone, making an edge of modeling wax 
around the surface to be etched arid pour- 
ing on the acid, which consists, in this 
case, of sulphuric acid, 1 part, to which 
5 to 6 parts of water are added. It acts 
very quickly. The lines turn a deep 
black. If. brown lines are desired, dis- 
solve 1 part of silver nitrate in 5 parts of 
water, etch for a short time, and expose 
the article for a few hours to the light, 
until the design turns brown. Very 
often etchings in ivory are gilded. For 
this purpose, fill the etched patterns 
accurately with siccatives, using a writ- 
ing pen, dry, and dab on gold leat. 
After a few hours remove the superfluous 
gold with wadding, and the design.^ 
be nicelv gilded. Etched ivory articles 
present a very handsome appearance 
they are first covered with a silvery gi°g 
the design being gilded afterwards, f 
the former purpose the etched object * 
laid in the above described so^JJ 
silver nitrate until it has acquired a a 
yellow color. Then rinse it off m «»J 
water and, while still moist, expo fcc 
direct sunlight. After 3 to 4 how ^ 
surface becomes entirely black, 
take on a fine silveiy luster 
with soft leather. 

Flexible Ivory. ^To soften 
render it flexible put pure P"" r ^f 
acid (specific gravity, 1.1$) inW ^ c of 



if rubbed 
,hosph" rlC 



mouthed bottle or jar that can ^ ;t 
ered, and steep the ivory m tl 11 . s h the 



uou i *w steep .t--,, , <■"- 
partially loses its opacity; tn yV v yrh& 1 
* soft water and ^^le, 



ivory in 



cold, 



the ivory will be found soft an 



i 



IVORY 



f ^ its hardness in course of time 

i ,n freely exposed to air, although its 
&itycan be restored by immersing 
the ivory in hot water. 

Another softening fluid is prepared by 
m -S 1 ounce of spirit of niter _ with 5 
Zncls of water and steeping the ivory m 
the fluid for 4 or 5 days. 

Hardened Ivory. -Tc .restore the hard- 
ne 5 to ivory that, has been softened by 
the above methods, wrap it in a sheet of 
white writing paper, cover it with dry de- 
lepftated silt, and let it remain thus 
Covered for 24 hours. The decrepitated 
tilt is prepared by strewing common 
ki chen Lit on a plate or dish and stand- 
ing same before a fierce fire, when the 
salt loses its crystalline appearance and 
assumes a dense opaque whiteness. 

IMITATION IVORY : 

See also Casein and Plaster. 

Manufacture of Compounds Imitating 
Ivory, Shell, etc.— Casein, as known, 
may act the part of an acid and combine 
with bases to form caseinates or caseates; 
among these compounds, caseinates of 
potash, of soda, and of ammonia are the 
only ones soluble in water; all the others 
are insoluble and may be readily pre- 
pared by double decomposition. Thus, 
for example, to obtain caseinate of 
alumina, it is sufficient to add to a solu- 
tion of casein in caustic soda a solution 
of sulphate of alumina; an insoluble 
precipitate of casein, or caseinate of 
alumina, is instantly formed. This pre- 
cipitate ought to be freed from the sul- 
phate of soda (formed by double de- 
composition) by means of prolonged 
washing. 

When pure, ordinary cellulose may be 
incorporated with it by this process, pro- 
ducing a new compound, cheaper than 
pure cellulose, although possessing the 
same properties, and capable of replacing 
it in all its applications. According to 
the results desired, in transparency, 
color, hardness, etc., the most suitable 
caseinate should be selected. Thus, if a 
translucent compound is to be obtained, 
the caseinate of alumina yields the best 
If a white compound is desired, the case- 
inate of zinc or of magnesia should be 
chosen; and for colored products the case- 
inates of iron, copper, and nickel will 
give varied tints. 

The process employed for the new 
products, with a base of celluloid and 
casemate, is as follows: On one hand 
casein is dissolved in a solution of caus- 
tic soda (100 of water for 10 to 25 of 
' this liquid is filtered, to sepa- 



rate the matters not dissolved and the 

impurities. 

On the other hand, a salt (of the base 
of which the caseinate is desired) is dis- 
solved, and the solution filtered. It is 
well not to operate on too concentrated a 
solution. The two solutions are mixed 
in a reservoir furnished with a mechan- 
ical stirrer, in order to obtain the insol- 
uble caseinate precipitate in a3 finely 
divided a state as possible. This precip- 
itate should be washed thoroughly so as 
to free it from the soda salt formed by 
double decomposition, but on account of 
its gummy or pasty state, this washing 
presents certain difficulties, and should 
be done carefully. After the washing it 
should be freed from the greater part of 
water contained by draining, followed 
by drying, or energetic pressing; then it 
is washed in alcohol, dried or pressed 
again, and is ready to be incorporated in 
the mass of the celluloid. 

For the latter immersion and washing, 
it has been found that an addition of 1 to 
5 per cent of borax is advantageous, for 
it renders the mass more plastic, and 
facilitates the operation of mixing. This 
may be conducted in a mixing apparatus; 
but, in practice, it is found preferable to 
effect it with a rolling mill, operated aa 
follows: . , , . 

The nitro-cellulose is introduced in 
the plastic state, and moistened with a 
solution of camphor in alcohol (40 to 5U 
parts of camphor in 50 to 70 parts of 
alcohol for 100 parts of n^ro-cellulose) 
as it is practiced in celluloid factories. 

This plastic mass of nitro-cellulose H 
placed in a rolling mill, the 
which are s ghtly heated at the same 
time as the caseinate, prepared « abo^ 

g leaves in the „ ge JP^*S 
pure celluloid. These Jea 




block thus tormea^ ^-^ e 
leaves of the thickness fte 
leaves are dried m ax appara £ 
same way as o™inary hag aU 

'duct resembles «^ d ^. F . it be- 



>roc 



Its P^P ert t ies ' 1fl ^ c a nd is easily molded, 
comes quite plastic, ana i* ' &nd 

carved without difficulty , y 
superb polish. « «>» com bustibihty 

SE5S ^LSSTS^ffi* ° ! 



IVORY— JEWELERS' FORMULAS 



d by using a large proportion of case- 
mate, products may be manufactured at 
an extremely low cost. 
IVORY AND BONE BLEACHES. 

Tf simply dirty, scrub with soap and 
tepid water, using an old tooth or nail 
brush for the purpose. Grease stains 
may be sometimes removed by applying 
a paste of chalk or whiting and benzol, 
covering the article so that the benzol may 
lot dry too rapidly. Carbon disulphide 
(the purified article) may be used m place 
of benzol. When dry, rub off with a stiff 
brush. If not removed with the hrst 
application, repeat the process. Deli- 
cately carved articles that show a ten- 
dency to brittleness should be soaked for 
a short time in dilute phosphoric acid 
before any attempt to clean them is made. 
This renders the minuter portions almost 
ductile, and prevents their breaking un- 
der cleaning. 

The large scratched brush should be 
treated as follows: If the scratches are 
deep, the surface may be carefully rubbed 
down to the depth of the scratch, using 
the finest emery cloth, until the depth is 
nearly reached, then substituting crocus 
cloth. 

To restore the polish nothing is supe- 
rior to the genuine German putz pomade, 
following by rubbing first with chamois 
and finishing off with .soft old silk. The 
more "elbow grease" put into the rub- 
bing the easier the task, as the heat gen- 
erated by friction seems to lend a sort of 
ductility to the surface. To remove the 
yellow hue due to age, proceed as follows: 
Make a little tripod with wire, to hold 
the object a few inches above a little 
vessel containing lime chloride moistened 
with hydrochloric acid; put the object on 
the stand, cover the whole with a bell 

fe S ' ui nd ex P ose tQ direct sunlight. 
When bleached, remove and wash in a 
solution of sodium bicarbonate, rinse in 
clear water and dry. 

Like mother-of-pearl, ivory is readily 
cleaned by dipping in a bath of oxygen- 
ized water or immersing for 15 minutes 
in spirits of turpentine, and subsequently 
exposing to the sun for 3 or 4 days. For 
LTJr d . ea ? in « of smooth articles, 
wash them in hot water, in which there 
Chi ^".Previously dissolved 100 parts 
oVn 8 ^ °/ bicar bonate of soda P per 
ivoSJ Em" ° f water - To clean varied 
sawdmt 6 A Pa3te ° f vei 7 fine - damp 
or at ' nd Put ° n this the j l »ce of 1 

dS on t£°- w apply a la y er of this s «w- 

na rub the object with a chamois. 



IVORY TESTS. 

Many years ago an article ' 
duced in the industrial world 4h ,ltltr °" 
contradistinction to the genuin • lti 
ivory, has its origin in the vegetall**! 1 ? 11 * 1 
dom, being derived from the n „t ,8* 
palm-like shrub called phyteleni a 
crocarpa, whose fruit leaches tK^ - Snia - 
an apple. This fruit has a very ° f 
exceedingly hard kernel which „ , e = 
worked like ivory. A hundred of 5. 
fruits only costing about $1, thei 
offers great advantages. Worked USe 
the lathe this ivory can be passed off 011 
the gen uine article, it being so much lit 8 
it that it is often sold at the same nri 
It can also be colored just like eenuinl 
ivory. b ue 

To distinguish the two varieties of 
ivory, the following method may be 
employed: Concentrated sulphuric acid 
applied to vegetable ivory will cause a 
pink coloring in about 10 or 12 minutes 
which can be removed again by washing 
with water. Applied on genuine ivory, 
this acid does not affect it in any manner. 

IVORY BLACK: 

See Bone Black. 

IVORY CEMENT: 
See Adhesives. 

IVORY GILDING : 
See Plating. 

IVORY POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 

JAPAN BLACK: 
See Paints. 

JAPANNING AND JAPAN TINNING-: 

Sec Varnishes. 

JASMINE MILK: 

See Cosmetics. 

JELLY (FRUIT) EXTRACT: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

JEWELERS' CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 
JEWELERS' CLEANING PROCESSES- 

See Cleaning Preparations and m» 
ods. 

Jewelers' Formulas 

(See also Gems, Gold, and Watchmaker 
Recipes.) _ ^ 

Coloring Gold Jewelry. ^ FoI1 §*uKr, 
several recipes for coloring- o»r s o 
40 parts; alum, SO parts; sea , 
parts; or, liquid ammonia, A" tjj^t 
sea salt, 3 parts; water, 100 parj ' . a0 gc 
without allowing to boil ana t 




JEWELERS' FORMULAS 



rte objects into it for 2 or 3 minutes, 
Srrine constantly; rinse in alum water 
j thea. in clean water. Another 
^ioe- Calcium bromide, 100 parts; 
bromine, 5 parts. Place the articles 
b tiS solution, with stirring, for. 2 to 8 
next wash in a solution or 



in_ 

SpSlphUr of" sodium and rinse in 
Sean water. Another: Verdigris 30 
parts; sea salt, 30 parts; blood stone, 
SO parts; sal ammoniac, SO parts; alum, 
S parts. Grind all and stir with strong 
vinegar; or, verdigris, 100 parts; hydro- 
chlorate of ammonia, 100 parts; salt- 
Deter 65 parts; copper filings, 40 parts, 
fcray'all and mix with strong vinegar. 

To Widen a Jewel Hole. — Chuck the 
hole in a lathe with cement. Place a 
spirit lamp underneath to prevent the 
cement from hardening. Hold the 
pointed bit against the hole, while the 
lathe is running, until the hole is true, 
when the lamp should be removed. 1 lie 
broach to widen the hole should be made 
of copper, of the required size and shape, 
and the point, after being oiled, should 
be rolled in diamond dust until it is 
entirely covered. The diamond dust 
should then be beaten in with a burnish- 
er, using very light blows so as not to 
bruise the broach. After the hole is 
widened as desired, it requires polishing 
with a broach made of ivory and used 
with oil and the finest diamond dust, 
loose, net driven into the broach. 

To Clean Jet Jewelry.— Reduce bread 
crumbs into small particles, and intro- 
duce into all the curves and hollows of 
the jewelry, while rubbing with a flannel. 

Coloring Common. Gold,— In coloring 
gold below IS carat, the following mix- 
ture may be used with success, and if 
carefully employed, even 12 carat gold 
may be colored by it: Take nitrate of 
potassa (saltpeter), 4 parts, by weight; 
alum, % parts; and common salt, 2 parts. 
Add sufficient warm water to mix the 
ingredients into a thin paste; place the 
mixture in a small pipkin or crucible 
and allow to boil. The article to be 
colored should be suspended by a wire 
and dipped into the mixture, where it 
should remain from 10 to 20 minutes. 
The article should then be removed and 
well rinsed iri hot water, when it must be 
scratch brushed, again rinsed and re- 
turned to the coloring salts for a few 
minutes; it is then to be again rinsed in 
hot water, scratch brushed, and finally 
brushed with soap and hot water, rinsed 
in hot water, and placed in boxwood 
sawdust, The object being merely to 



remove the alloy, as soon as the article 
has acquired the proper color of fine gold 
it may be considered sufficiently acted 
upon by the above mixture. The color- 
ing salts should not be used for gold of a 
lower standard than 12 carat, and, even 
for this quality of gold, some care must 
be taken when the articles are of a very 
slight make. 

Shades of Red, etc., on Matt Gold 
Bijouterie.— For the production of the 
red and other shades on matt gold arti- 
cles, the so-called gold varnishes are 
employed, which consist of shellac dis- 
solved in alcohol and are colored with 
gum rosins. Thus a handsome golden 
yellow is obtained from shellac, 35 parts; 
seed-lac, 35 parts; dragon's blood, 50 
parts; gamboge, 50 parts; dissolved in 
400 parts of alcohol; the clear solution is 
decanted and mixed with 75 parts o* 
Venice turpentine. By changing the 
amounts of the coloring rosins, shades 
from bright gold yellow to copper color 
are obtained. The varnish is applie: 1 
evenly and after drying is wiped off froi 
the raised portions of the article b 
means of a pad of wadding dipped int. 
alcohol, whereby a handsome patina 
tlon effect is produced, since the lacque 
remains in the cavities. Chased articles 
are simply rubbed with earth color 
ground into a paste with turpentine oil- 
for which purpose burnt sienna, fin 
ochers of a golden color, golden yellow, 
and various shades of green are employed. 

I —Yellow wax 32 parts 

Red bole 3 parts 

Crystallized verdi- 
gris * parts 

Alum Mparts 

IL— Yellow wax 95 parts 

Red bole «JP«J; 

Colcothar 8 P arts 

Crystallised verdi- ^ ^ 

Clashes 20 parts 

Zinc vitriol.. « P^ 

^en vitriol 18 part. 

Borax. , 

The T ax b melted and the tog 
? ered ctan.cals are st.rre I , ( 

^?^ n un 0 ,d a the r tode h ^on,iences J 



506° F. until 

S Jfa5d d w P itL *0 part, of «*» »» 



II 



482 



JEWELERS' FORMULAS 



#i. A «iiii?hlv. dry, and polish. For the 
^rXcfion of a pale-goia shade use a wax 
preparation consisting of: 

HI Yellow wax parts 

' Zinc vitriol 10 parts 

Burnt borax . 3 parts 

Green-gold color is produced by a mix- 
ture of: 

IV.— Saltpeter <j P ar * s 

Green vitriol » parts 

Zinc vitriol 1 P ar J 

Alum 1 P art . 

To Matt Gilt Articles.— If it is desired 
matt gilt articles partly or entirely, the 
portions which are to remain burnished 
are covered with a mixture of chalk, 
sugar, and mucilage, heating until this 
"stopping-off" covering shows a black 
color. On the places not covered apply 
a matting powder consisting of: 

Saltpeter 40 parts 

Alum. 25 parts 

Cooking salt 35 parts 

Heat the objects to about 608° F. } 
whereby the powder is melted and ac- 

?[uires the consistency of a thin paste, 
n case of too high a temperature de- 
composition will set in. 

To Find the Number of Carats. — To 
find the number of carats of gold in an 
object, first weigh the gold and mix with 
seven times its weight in silver. This 
alloy is beaten into thin leaves, and nitric 
acid is added; this dissolves the silver 
and copper. The remainder (gold) is 
then fused and weighed; by comparing 
the first and last weights the number of 
carats of pure gold is found. To check 
repeat several times. 

Acid Test for Gold.— The ordinary 
ready method of ascertaining whether a 
piece of jewelry is made of gold consists 
in touching it with a glass stopper wetted 
with nitric acid, which leaves gold un- 
touched, but colors base alloys blue from 
the formation of nitrate of copper. 

Imitation Diamonds. — I. — Minium, 
75 parts (by weight); washed white sand, 
50 parts; calcined potash, 18 parts; cal- 
cined borax, 6 parts; bioxide of arsenic, 
} P art - 1 The sand mu3t be washed in 
hydrochloric acid and then several times 
in clean water. The specific gravity of 
this crystal glass is almost the same as 
that of the diamond. 

™?„C7N Washed white Sttnd ' 1( >0 Parts (by 

WeiEntl: minium 9c j... 1 . 



„ u~„>r m,mum ' 35 parts; calcined pot- 
ash, 25 parts; calr ' ■ F 



7 eight) 

parts; calcined borax, 20 parts; 

SeroxfdP «^ 0Ush < cr y stals ). 10 parts; 
?*n?l ?l man f?ane S e, 5 parts. The 
Band must be washed as above stated. 



Diamantine. — This substance cqti : 
of crystallized boron, the basis of k ts 
By melting 100 parts of boracic acid ^ 
SO parts of aluminum crystals !«, *|? 
tained the so-called bort, which 
attacks diamond. The diamantin?^ 
commerce is not so hard. °* 

To Refine Board Sweepings -^rn, 
residue resulting from a jobbing 
eler's business, such as board sweenin 
and other residuum, which is continualf 
accumulating and which invariably co / 
sists of all mixed qualities of standard 
may have the precious metals recovered 
therefrom in a very simple manner as 
foil ows: Collect the residue and burn it 
in an iron ladle or pan, until all grease 
or other organic matter is destroyed 
When cool mix with i part soda-ash, and 
melt in a clay crucible. When the metal 
is thoroughly melted it will leave the flux 
and sink to the bottom of the crucible* 
at this stage the flux assumes the appear- 
ance of a thin fluid, and then is the time 
to withdraw the pot from the fire. The 
metal in the crucible — but not the flux- 
may now be poured into a vessel of water, 
stirring the water in a circular direction 
while the metal is being poured in, which 
causes it to form into small grains, and 
so prepares it for the next process. Dis- 
solve the grains in a mixture of nitric 
acid and water in equal quantities. It 
takes about four times the quantity of 
liquid as metal to dissolve. The gold 
remains undissolved in this mixture, and 
may be recovered by filtering or decant 
ing the liquid above it in the dissolving 
vessel; it is then dried, mixed with a little 
flux, and melted in the usual manner, 
whereupon pure gold will be obtained. 
To recover the silver, dilute the solution 
which has been withdrawn from the goia 
with six times its bulk of water, and aaa 
by degrees small quantities of Mjg 
powdered common salt, and this 
throw down the silver into a white, cu j 
powder of chloride of silver. Continue 
add salt until no cloudiness is ° bser * 
in the solution, when the water 
the sediment may be poured J n, 
sediment is next well washed w«n d 
water several times, then drl *° g> 
melted in the same manner as 
and you will have a lump of pur e 

f Tuf" 

Restoration of the Color 01 iseS 
quoises.— After a certain time tor ^ ■ 
lose a part of their fine color, i then , 
to restore the color by inl ™ erS Tf But 
in a solution of carbonate oi so ' '^gi 
it seems that the blue cannot he r ^ 
anew after this operation, « to 
becomes dull. The above apF 




JEWELERS' FORMULAS 



438 



mmnn turquoises, and not to those of 
SfSSSn? of which the color does not 

change. 

Colorings for Jewelers' Work. I.— - 

T,ke 40 parts of saltpeter; 30 parts of 
aiunr 30 parte of sea salt; or 100 grams 
S iq >id ammonia; 3 parts sea salt; and 
100 parts water. This is heated without 
ffimg ^ to a boil, and the articles 
Sed into it for from 2 to 3 minutes, 
fig the liquid constantly; after this 
bath they are dipped m alum water and 
then thoroughly rinsed in clean water. 

II —One hundred parts of calcium bro- 
mide and 2 parts of bromium. The ob- 
jects are allowed to remain in this solu- 
tion (which must be also constantly 
stirred) for from 2 to 3 minutes then 
washed in a solution of sodium hypo- 
sulphite, after which they must be rinsed 
in clean water. 

Hi _Thirty parts of verdigris; 30 parts 
of sea salt; 30 parts of hematite; 30 parts 
of sal ammoniac, and 5 parts of alum. 
This must be all ground up together and 
mixed with strong vinegar; or we may 
also use 100 parts of verdigris; 100 parts 
of hydrochlorate of ammonia; 65 parts 
of saltpeter, and 40 parts of copper 
filings, all of which are to be well mixed 
with strong vinegar. 

22-Carat Solder.— Soldering is a proc- 
ess which, by means of a more fusible 
compound, the connecting surfaces of 
metals are firmly secured to each other, 
but, for many practical purposes, it is 
advisable to have the fusing point of the 
metal and solder as near each other as 
possible, which, in the majority of cases, 
preserves a union more lasting, and the 
joint less distinguishable, in consequence 
of the similarity of the metal and solder 
in color, which age does not destroy, and 
this is not the case with solders the fusible 
points of which are very low. The 
metal to be soldered together must have 
an afEnity for the solder, otherwise the 
union will be imperfect; and the solder 
should likewise act upon the metal, 
partly by this affinity or chemical attrac- 
tion, and partly by cohesive force, to 
unite the connections soundly and firmly 
together. Solders should therefore be 
prepared suitable to the work in hand, if 
a good and lasting job is to be made. It 
should alwavs be borne in mind that the 
higher the fusing point of the gold alloy 
—and this can be made to vary consid- 
erably, even with any specified quality— 
the harder solder must be used, tor. >a 
the case of a more fusible mixture of gold, 
the latter would melt before the solder 



and cause the work to be destroyed. A 
very good formula for the first, or ordi- 
nary, 22-carat alloy is this; 

dwts. grs. 

Fine gold 1 0 

Fine silver 0 3 

Fine copper . . . . 0 % 



1 5 

This mixture will answer all the many 

Eurposes of the jobber; for soldering 
igh quality gold wares that come for 
repairs, particularly wedding rings, it 
will be found admirably suited. If an 
easier solder is wanted, and such is very 
often the case with jobbing jewelers, es- 

Eccially where several solderings have to 
e accomplished, it is as well to have at 
hand a solder whicih will not disturb the 
previous soldering places, for if this is 
not prevented a very simple job is made 
very difficult, and a lot of time and 
patience wholly wasted. To guard 
against a thing of this kind the following 
solder may be employed on the top of 
the previous one: 

dwts. grs. 

Fine gold 1 j> 

Fine silver 0 3 

Yellow brass 0 2 

1 5 

This solder is of the same value as the 
previous one, but its melting point is 
lower, and it will be found useful for 
many purposes that can be turned to 
good account in a jobbing jeweler s 
business. 

JEWELERS' ALLOYS: . 

See also Alloys and Solders. < 

xS-Carat Gold for Rings. -Gold coin 
l4 g™ms; pure copper, 3 grams; pure 
silver, 14 grains. 

Cheap Gold, 12 Carat -Gold com 
25 grains; pure copper, IS* grams, p 
silver, 74 grains. farmer 

Very Cheap 4-Carat MLj™^' 
18 parts; gold, 4 parte; silver 2 parts. 

. ^ A f Gold — I. — Platma, 4 
Imitations of tr0A °' 2 i penny- 

pennyweights; pure copper > ^ P pi ht; 
weights: sheet zinc, i f j d 

block tin. If. Wrfhis ' should be 
14 pennyweight. 11 f practical 
found *o W °r compositmnwith » 
use. smelting the com P u render 
little sal ammoniac wan & 
5 malleable as desired. 

copper. 3 part-. Th« nearly resem- 
when pr°P«H ^Til is very difficult 
ble p» re B old u 



434 



JEWELERS' FORMULAS 



distinguish them therefrom. A htt e 
powdered charcoal, mixed with metals 
while melting, will be found of service. 

Best Oreide of Gold.— Pure copper, 4 
ounces; sheet zinc, If ounces: magnesia, 
i ounce; sal ammoniac, B ounce; quick- 
lime, n% ounce; cream tartar, £ ounce. 
First melt the copper at as low a tem- 
perature as it will melt; then add the 
zinc, and afterwards the other articles m 
powder, in the order named. Use a 
charcoal fire to melt these metals. 

Bushing Alloy for Pivot Holes, etc. — 
Gold coin, 3 pennyweights; silver, 1 
pennyweight, 20 grains; copper, 3 pen- 
nyweights, 20 grains; palladium, 1 
pennyweight. The best composition 
known for the purpose named. 

Gold Solder for 14- to 16-Carat Work. 
—Gold coin, 1 pennyweight; pure silver, 

0 grains; pure copper, 6 grains; brass, 
3 grains. 

Darker Solder. — Gold coin, ! penny- 
weight; pure copper, S grains; pure 
silver, 5 grains; brass, 2 grains. Melt 
together in charcoal fire. 

Solder for Gold. — Gold, 6 penny- 
weights; silver, 1 pennyweight; copper, 
£ pennyweights. 

Soft Gold Solder. — Gold, 4 parts; silver, 

1 part; copper, 1 part. 

Solders for Silver (for the use of 
jewelers). — Fine silver, 19 pennyweights; 
copper, 1 pennyweight; sheet brass, 10 
pennyweights. 

White Solder for Silver.— Silver, 1 
ounce; tin, 1 ounce. 

Silver Solder for Plated Metal.— Fine 
silver, 1 ounce; brass, 10 pennyweights. 

Solders for Gold. — T. — Silver, 7 parts; 
copper, 1 part; with borax. 

II.— Gold, 2 parts; silver, 1 part; cop- 
per, 1 part. r 

HI-— Gold, 3 parts; silver, S parts: 
copper, 1 part; zinc, \ part. 



For Silver.— Silver, 2 parts; brass, 1 
trt; with borax; or, silver, 4 parts - 
rass, 3 parts; zinc, part; with borax! 
Gold Solders (see also Solders). — I. — 

g^ p df e 4 r 8.i5- 2 P ir ts; siIver - m - m parts: 

silHr?^ amel Solti er.— Copper, 25 parts; 
silver, 7.07 parts; gold, 67.93 parts 

Darts-' T7l C ° PP 0 e 1 r ' 26 55 P arts ; zinc » 
parts, 3 ,lve r> 31 . 26 parts . go , d5 m ^ 



Solder for 2 2 -Carat Gold , 

carats, 1 pennyweight; silver 2 a f 22 
copper, 1 grain. ' A gra lns; 

For 18-Carat Gold.— Gold 
carats, 1 pennyweight; silver a 
copper, 1 grain. ' Sraiu s . 

For Cheaper Gold.— 1. — Q 0 ]a 1 
weight; silver, 10 grains; ^1^: 
grains. fP^r, g 

H. — Fine gold, 1 pennyweight- ■, 

1 pennyweight; copper, 1 pennywdgh?' 

Silver Solders (see also Solders) T 
(Hard.)— Copper, 30 parts; z i nc V g 'k 
parts; silver, 57.15 parts. 455 

•i n "~^T per ' f ,33 partS; zinc ' 10 ?an s - 

silver, 66.67 parts. r 1 

III.— Copper, 26.66 parts; zinc l0 
parts; silver, 63.34 parts. ' 

I V. (Soft.) -Copper 14.75 parts; z i nc , 
8.50 parts; silver, 77. 0j parts. 

V. — Copper, £2.34 parts; zinc, 10 48 
parts; silver, 67.18 parts. 

VI. — Tin, 63 parts; lead, 37 parts. 
FOR SILVERSMITHS: 

I. — Sterling Silver.— Fine silver, 11 
ounces, 2 pennyweights; fine copper, 18 
pennyweights. 

EL — Equal to Sterling.— Fine silver, 
1 ounce; fine copper, 1 pennyweight, 12 
grains. 

III. — Fine silver, 1 ounce; fine copper, 
5 pennyweights. 

IV. — Common Silver for Chains,— Fine 
silver, 6 pennyweights; fine copper, 4 
pennyweights. 

V. — Solder.— Fine silver, 16 penny- 
weights; fine copper, 12 grains; pin 
brass, 3 pennyweights, 12 grains. 

VI. — Alloy for Plating.— Fine silver, 
1 ounce; fine copper, 10 pennyweights. 

VII. — Silver Solder.— Fine silver, 1 
ounce; pin brass, 10 pennyweights; pure 
spelter, 2 pennyweights. 

VIII. — Copper Solder for Plating-- 
Fine silver, 10 pennyweights; fine cop- 
per, 10 pennyweights. 

IX. — Common Silver Solder-Fiue 
silver, 10 ounces; pin brass, 6 ounc » 

pennyweights; spelter, 



1® penny* 



12 

weights 

X. — Silver Solder for Enameling-^ 
Fine silver, 14 pennyweights; nne 
per, 8 pennyweights. „. 

XI. -For Filling Signet Ringf-''^ 
silver, 10 ounces; fine copper. 1 g 
16 pennyweights; fine pin P**f . ^ 
ounces, 12 pennyweights; spen > 
pennyweights 



JEAVELERS* FORMULAS 



435 



XII.— Silver Solder for Gold Plating. 

—Fine silver, 1 ounce; fine copper, 5 
pennyweights; pin brass, 5 pennyweights. 

XIIX. Mercury Solder. — Fine silver, 

1 ounce; pin brass, 10 pennyweights; 
bar tin, 2 pennyweights. 

XIV — Imitation Silver. — Fine silver, 
1 ounce; nickel, 1 ounce, 11 grains; fine 
copper, 2 ounces, 9 grams. 

XV. Fine silver, 3 ounces; nickel, 1 

ounce' 11 pennyweights; fine copper, 2 
ounces, 9 grains; spelter, 10 penny- 
weights. 

XVL— Fine Silver Solder for Filigree 
Work. — Fine silver, 4 pennyweights, 
6 grains; pin brass, 1 pennyweight. 

Bismuth Solder.— Bismuth, 3 ounces; 
lead, 3 ounces, IS pennyweights; tin, 5 
ounces, 6 pennyweights. 

BRASS: 

I. — Yellow Brass for Turning,— (Com- 
mon article.)— Copper, 20 pounds; zinc, 
10 pounds; lead, 4 ounces. 

II. — Copper, 32 pounds; zinc, 10 
pounds; lead, 1 pound. 

III. —Red Brass Free, for Turning.— 
Copper, 100 pounds; zinc, 50 pounds; 
lead, 10 pounds; antimony, 44 ounces. 

IV. — Best Red Brass for Fine Cast- 
ings. — Copper, 24 pounds; zinc, 5 
pounds; bismuth, 1 ounce. 

V. — Red Tombac— Copper, 10 pounds; 
zinc, 1 pound. 

VI. — Tombac.— Copper, 16 pounds; 
tin, 1 pound; zinc, I pound. 

VII. Brass for Heavy Castings.— 
Copper, 6 to 7 parts; tin, 1 part; zinc, 1 
part. 

VIII. —Malleable Brass.— Copper, 70.10 
parts; zinc, 29.90 parts. 

IX. — Superior Malleable Brass. — Cop- 
per, B0 parts; zinc, 40 parts. 

X. — Brass. — Copper, 73 parts; zinc, 
27 parts. 

XL— Copper, 65 parts; zinc, 35 parts. 

XII. — Copper, 70 partsi zinc, SO parts. 

XIII. — German Brass. — Copper, 1 
pound; zinc, 1 pound. 

XIV. — Watchmakers' Brass. —Copper, 
1 part; zinc, 2 parts. 

XV. — Brass for Wire. — Copper, 34 
parts; calamine. 56 parts. 

• XVL— Brass for Tubes.— Copper, 2 
parts; zinc, 1 part. 

XVII,— Brass for Heavy Work.— 
Copper, 100 parts; tin, 15 parts; zinc, 
IS parts. 



XVIII. — Copper, HQ parts; tin, 13 
parts; zinc, 1 part. 

XIX. — Tombac or Red Brass.— Cop- 
per, S parts; zinc, 1 part. 

XX -— Brass >— Copper, 3 parts; melt, 
then add zinc, 1 part. 

XXI. — Buttonmakers' Fine Brass.— 

Brass, 8 parts; zinc, 5 parts. 

XXII. —Buttonmakers' Common 
Brass.— Button brass, 6 parts; tin, 1 
part; lead, 1 part. Mix. 

XXIII. — Mallet's Brass.— Copper, 
25.4 parts; zinc, 74.6 parts. Used to pre- 
serve iron from oxidizing. 

XXIV. — Best Brass for Clocks.— 
Rose copper, 85 parts; zinc, 14 parts; 
lead, 1 part. 

GOLD ALLOYS: 

See also Gold Alloys, under Alloys. 
Gold of 22 carats fine being so little 
used is intentionally omitted. 

I. --Gold of 18 Carats, Yellow Tint. 
— Gold, 15 pennyweights; silver, 2 pen- 
nyweights, 18 grains; copper, % penny- 
weights, 6 grains. 

II. — Gold of 1 8 Carats, Red Tint- 
Gold, 15 pennyweights; silver, 1 pennj 
weight, 18 grains; copper, 3 pennj 
weights, 6 grains. 

III. — Spring Gold of 16 Carats.— 
Gold, 1 ounce, 16 pennyweights; silver, 
6 pennyweights; copper, 12 P ennv : 
weights. This when drawn or rolled 
very hard makes springs little inferior tc 
steel. 

IV — Jewelers' Fine Gold, Yello\ 
Tint, 1 6 Carats Nearly.— Gold, 1 ounce 
silver, 7 pennyweights; copper, 5 penn; 
weights. 

V —Gold of Red Tint, 16 Carats. 

Gold, 1 ounce; silver, 2 pennyweights 
copper, 8 pennyweights. 

Sterling Gold Alloys. -L-Kne gok 
18 pennyweights 12 g™™**™?™ 
1 pennyweight; fine copper, 12 grams. 

tt Dry Colored Gold Alloys, i« 

Carat. -Fine gold, )*&™F'$hi 
fine silver, 1 pennyweight 10 gram 
fine copper, 4 pennyweights 17 grams 

III.-18 Carat. -Fine gold 1 ounce 
» „ ei i ver 4 pennyweights, 10 gram, 
nn ct p^ 2 pennyweights 5 grains^ 

TV -IB Carat.-Fine gold, 15 pennj 
fine silver, 2 pennyweights, 
^fine copper,^ pennyweiglts, 

grE v -18 Carat.-Fine gold, 18 penny 
weights; fine silver, 2 pennyweights, I 



16 JEWELERS 



. FORMULAS — KEROSENE DEODORIZER 



rains; 



fine co 



pper, S pennyweights, 



18 



' " nS " rarat -Fine gold, 1 ounce; 
l-*9 5 ar f- weights, 6 grams; fine 

3 penny 



ine 



l r 9 Pennyweights, 6 gram 

&a ° copper ' 

,e silver, * y ' grains, 
pennyweights, 4 s_ lg pen . 

7fe 8 ( rS Foregoing 



Kalsomine 



8 parts 



ine 



.^4 Solder ior^~ d g 



toys— Take 

using, 1 
rains 



^ of the 
pennyweight; 



fine silver, 
Rings.— 



ain .11 , fnr Drv Colored Rings.— 
X '^°T ounee-^ne silver, 4 penny- 
»p crnld. 1 OUnce^"* ^ p enrl y- 



fine copper, 



ine gold, 
reights, 6 grains 
eights, 6 grains. ^ 

3P xn-S^ S Colorad Scrap Reduced 

weights, 12 grams; spelter, 4 penny 
weights. 




Swolle 
pull the 

apart, so that it can be seen 
on it a little absolute alcohol and place 
the finger in a bowl of metallic mercury 



Sodium carbonate. . 

Unseed oil » parts 

Hot water Sparta 

White glue imparts 

Wtkfg 160 Parts 

T^olve the sodium carbonate in the 
hot water, add . the oil and saponify by 
Wins and agitation. Cover the glu e , 
broken into small pieces with cold 
water and let soak overnight. U the 
morning pour the whole on a stout piece 
3 stuff and let the residual water dram 
off getting rid of as much as possible by 
slightly twisting the cloth throw h e 
swelled glue into a capsule put on the 
water bath, and heat gently until it ja 
melted Add the saponified oil and mix 
well; remove from the bath, and stir m 
the whiting, a little at a time, adding hot 
water as it becomes necessary. When 
the whiting is all stirred m, continue 
adding hot water, until a liquid is ob- 
tained that flows freely from the kalso- 

^aSn of a little soluble blue to 
the mixture increases the intensity of the 
white. 



then drop 



Sizing Walls for Kalsomine.-A size 
coat over "hot walls" for the reception 
of the kalsomine is 



Tu a very few minutes the ring will snap of trie _.. 
t:r\t the ring is of brass, scrape the | geUac,^^ ^-d^. 



made by 
\ part. 



using 
Put 



apart. ^ — s, „< - 

surface slightly, or put on a lew drops of 
a solution of oxalic acid, or even strong 
vinegar, let remain in contact for a 
moment or two, then put into the mer- 
cury, and the result will be as before. 

Soldering a Jeweled Ring. — In order 
to prevent the bursting of the jewels of a 
ring while the latter is being soldered, 
cut a juicy potato into halves and make 
a hollow in both portions in which the 
part of the ring having jewels may fit 
exactly. Wrap the jeweled portion in 
soft paper, place it in the hollow, and 
bind up the closed potato with binding 
wire. Now solder with easy-flowing 
gold solder, the potato being held in the 
band. Another method is to fill a small 
crucible with wet sand, bury the jeweled 
portion in the sand, and solder in the 
usual way. 

JEWELRY, TO CLEAN: 

ods ^ eanir " Preparations and Meth- 



dissolve by steady heat. Another size i 
made of glue size prepared m the usual 
way, and alum. To \ pound of wMj 
glue add f pound of alum, d.ssol n ^ 
alum in hot water before adding it to 
glue size 

KARATS, TO FIND NUMBER OF: 

See Jewelers' Formulas. 

KERAMICS: 

See Ceramics. 



KERIT : 

See Rubber. 

KERO CLEAN : . . 

See Cleaning Preparations ana 

ods. 

KEROSENE DEODORIZER: 

See also Benzine, Oils, ana 
leum. 

been 



Jfeth- 



Petro- 



ecoH>- 



Various processes have d ,, erOS e[^ 
mended for masking the odor oi 
such as the addition of various 



KEROSENE DEODORIZER— LACQUERS <m 



oils artificial oil of mirbane, etc., but 
none of them seems entirely satisfactory. 
The addition of amyl acetate m the pro- 
portion of 10 grams to the liter (1 per 
Lnt) has also been suggested, severa 
experimenters reporting very successful 
results therefrom. Some years ago JJer- 
foger proposed a process for . removing 
sulphur compounds from benzine which 
would presumably be equally applicable 
to kerosene. This process is as follows: 

Potassium permanga- 
nate 1 ounce 

Sulphuric acid - 5 P mt 

Water S J pints 

Mix the acid and water, and when the 
mixture has become cold pour it into a 
2-gallon bottle. Add the permanganate 
and agitate until it is dissolved. Then 
add benzine, 1 gallon, and thoroughly 
agitate. Allow the liquids to remain m 
contact for 24 hours, frequently agitating 
the mixture. Separate the benzine and 
wash in a similar bottle with a mixture 
of 

Potassium permanga- 
nate 1 ounce 

Caustic soda jounce 

Water 2 pints 

Agitate the mixture frequently during 
several hours; then separate the benzine 
and wash it thoroughly with water. On 
agitating the benzine with the acid per- 
manganate solution an emulsion-like 
mixture is produced, which separates in 
a lew seconds, the permanganate slowly 
subsiding and showing considerable re- 
duction. In the above process it is 
quite probable that the time specified (24 
hours) is greatly in excess of what is 
necessary, as the reduction takes place 
almost entirely in a very short time. It 
has also been suggested that if the proc- 
ess were adopted on a manufacturing 
scale, with mechanical agitation, the 
time could be reduced to an hour or two. 

KEROSENE-CLEANING- COMPOUNDS: 
See Cleaning Preparations, under 
Miscellaneous Methods. 

KEROSENE EMULSIONS: 

See Petroleum. 
KETCHUP (ADULTERATED), TESTS 
FOR: 

See Poods. 

KHAKI COLORS: 

See Dyes. 

KID: 

See Leather. 



KISSINGEN SALTS: 

See Salts (Effervescent). 

KISSINGEN WATER: 

See Waters. 

KNIFE-SHARPENING PASTES: 

See Razor Pastes. 

KNOCKENPLOMBE: 

See Adhesives. 

KNOTS: 
See Paint. 

KOLA CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

KOUMISS SUBSTITUTE: 

See also Beverages. 

To prepare a substitute tor koumiss 
fvom cow's milk: Dissolve 1 ounce grape 
sugar in 3 fluid ounces water. Mix 18 
grains well washed and pressed beer 
yeast with % fluid ounces of cow's milk. 
Mix the two liquids in a champagne 
bottle, fill with milk, stopper securely, 
and keep for 3 to 4 days at a tempera- 
ture not exceeding 50° F., shaking fre- 
quently. The preparation does not keep 
longer than 4 to 5 days. 

KUMMEL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

KWASS: 

See Beverages. 

LABEL PASTES, GLUES, AND MUCI- 
LAGES:. 

See Adhesives. 

LABEL VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 

LACE LEATHER: 

See Leather. 
LACE, TO CLEAN GOLD AND SILVER: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

LACES, WASHING AND COLORING 
OF: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

Lacquers 

(See alsoEnamels, Glazes, Paints, Var- 
nishes, and Waterproofing.) 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAKING 

LACQUERS. 

You will note that the formula for 
Clear Lacquer calls for 8 ounces of Di- 
But?l Phthalate which we call the plas- 
tfsdser. When making up a batch of 



LACQUERS 



,. , , oll are going to 
Clear L ac ^ e J n T h S eH as Clear Lacquer 

vou need to puv oin2 . to mix tni- 

[ate. But^f/ou^ar^gom^ ^ 



the 



colors with the dear 



various colors. « Crushing Lacquer 
l*T r « the finished B^usmng ^.^^ 



the Di-Butyl 
this. The col- 
mixture of gum 



Snamels, D° NOT put in 
Athalate. Tl« = reason »* 
orS are ^AjSser, therefore already 
solution and plastiscisej hthalate to 

contain tf U |\:?mtv It must GO IN 
give the film flexib 1 for cl ar 

iSue" not when usi^g the clear lac- 
quer to mix with colors. be 
q Practically any ^rab 6 fad e g 

feo^ 

y ThTm&c colors with the clear 
lacquer be sure to stir long and thor 
oushly until all mixed together. Also 
sTif up the batch before you begin to fill 
the small cans. , . 

The Brushing Lacquers can be sold to 
all of the dealers in your vicinity it you 
desire, or you can have agents out to 
sell them direct to the consumer. 

The furniture Lacquer formulas can 
be sold for all purposes where a spray- 
ing lacquer is required. Furniture fac- 
tories, or where woodwork is built and 
finished Lacquers are often used. 

To make a colored spraying lacquer 
simply add the colors to the spraying 
lacquers instead of to the clear Brush- 
ing Lacquer. For spraying you will 
probably need to add about one ounce 
more black, 2 ounces more yellow, 2 
ounces more red, 2 ounces green, 4 
ounces more white and 2 ounces more 
blue to the gallon of clear than you 
would to a gallon of Brushing Clear 
Lacquer. In others increase the amount 
of each color as given above so that 
when adding Black Ground Color to the 
furniture Lacquer you will have three 
ounces instead of two ounces. Spraying 
Lacquers require a little more pigment 
to the gallon to get coverage. 

In making up the clear lacquer you 

IS ^°l Ve A the Cottons in tn <= Butyl 
and Ethyl Acetates. Then vou add 

c™ y W 1 " 8 the Damar and Ester 
Gum solu ions which we tell you how 

Then vL m an °f her "^^ction papen 
But yl y SronTon,f° Wl!r , a ? d the Alcohol, 

each ih»m ^ a ptna. When adding 

4<« rjxa,- 



BRUSHING LACQUER FORMU- 
LAS: 

Cleat Lacquer No. 1.— 

14 ounces % second cotton per gal, 
solvents 

12 ounces Damar Gum per gal, sol, 
vents 

6 ounces Ester Gum per gal. sol- 
vents 

3 ounce3 Di-butyl Phthalate 
40% Petrol or L.D. Naptha 
20% Alcohol, denatured 
15% Ethyl Acetate 
20% Acetate-Butyl 

5% Butyl propionate 

Yellow Brushing Lacquer.— Add 12 
ounces of Ground Yellow Pigment and 4 
ounces of Ground White Pigment to get 
a good yellow lacquer, to each gallon 
clear lacquer. 

White Lacquer Brushing— Add 24 

ounces of Ground White Pigment to a 
gallon of clear lacquer to make good 
White Brushing Lacquer. 

Black Brushing Lacquer— Add 2 
ounces of Ground Black to each gallon 
of Clear Lacquer to make good Black 
Brushing Lacquer. 

Red Brushing Lacquer— Add 6 
ounces of Red Ground Pigment and 4 
ounces of Ground White Pigment to each 
gallon of clear lacquer to get good Red 
Brushing Lacquer. 

Blue Brushing Lacquer.— Add 4 
ounces Blue, 8 ounces White, % ° u " ce 
Black Ground Pigments to get good Blue 
Brushing Lacquer. 

Brown Brushing Lacquer.— Add 6 
ounces Red, 1 ounce Yellow, 
White and % ounce Black 
Brown Brushing Lacquer. 

Green Brushing Lacquer .--Add - 
ounces Green, 2 ounces White to m* 
good Green Brushing Lacquer. l 1 or 
ditional density and deeper coverage 
or increase amount of Green. 



4 ounces 
to m ake 



THINNER FORMULA F ° B 
BRUSHING LACQUER. 

6C% Petrol or L.D. Naptha 

15% Alcohol 

15% Ethvl Acetate 

20% Butyl Acetate 

Add to a gallon of the above 'g?^ 
a pint of either Collosolve or 
cohol. 



J 



LACQUERS 



439 



H 0W TO DECORATE FURNI- 
TURE NOVELTIES. 

In the past, home decorating has been 
nS jdered a more or less exclusive art but 
.. hoS n ow become almost, commonplace. 

Women who never have indulged in 
this form of fascinating work have still 
to find out what pleasure it will bring to 

th Those who like to feel that they are 
actually creating something can do no 
better than to purchase the necessary 
items with which to accomplish this work 
and then get busy. 

It is nut only economical to purchase 
these pieces of underrated furniture and 
then decorate them yourself but it is 
really a pleasure and will not seem at all 
like work to you. And I am sure that 
once you have" finished a piece of furni- 
ture or a novelty and can look upon it 
and perhaps even scrutinize it for de- 
fective %vorkmanship you will be sur- 
prised at its beauty. The desire to con- 
tinue on will at once take place and you 
will then proceed to finish up odd pieces 
such as bookshelfs, magazine stands, etc. 

You will find it not only a pleasure to 
do this work, if I may term it that, but 
you will also realize that it is highly 
educational. Who can doubt that when 
you mix your own shades in order to 
create the special color you desire but 
never could find, but that this is in 
itself educational. It will certainly be a 
pleasure to experiment and work out 
your own color schemes and obtain 
shades that you have long desired to have. 

There are of course a few rules that 
can be followed in planning and doing 
this work, 

In the first place you can get most of 
the items you wish to have in nearly all 
department stores and at present this 
line of endeavor has become so popular 
that gift shops, paint stores, etc., are 
also stocking up on the necessary mate- 
rials. 

There unpainted furniture is obtain- 
able in the assembled form or it can be 
purchased in knock-down form. It is 
just as well to buy it knock-down as it 
is somewhat cheaper and so easy is it put 
together that a small child could do ft. 

The necessary finishing materials can 
usually be obtained in the same store 
where the furniture is purchased. You 
will probably wish to have your pieces 
finished in the well known lacquer finish. 
Therefore you will ask the clerk to show 
you the colors carried in stock, also the 
amount of lacquer required to finish up 



your pieces. Be sure to obtain a small 
can of Reducer with the Brushing Lac- 
quer for when the lacquer gets thick and 
does not brush easily you will need to 
thin it out with this reducer. 

In addition to the brushing lacquer 
you will require a very soft brush with 
which to appy the lacquer, No doubt 
the clerk will recommend a camel's hair 
brush or at least one that is very soft. 

If you intend to stripe the furniture 
or the object that is to be finished it will 
also be necessary to obtain a tube or two 
of Japan or Oil colors together with a 
small striping brush. These striping 
brushes run in various sizes, depending 
upon the size of stripe you must have. 

If you expect to put a design on the 
pieces such as a painted flower or so, 
you will do well to purchase a decalco- 
mania transfer. These transfers come 
in a very large variety of patterns and 
sizes and range in prices of from five 
cents each up to a dollar. The clerk 
will probably give you instructions and 
material with which to put these on but 
in case you do not get the exact instruc- 
tions and the material, purchase a very 
small bottle or can of white damar var- 
nish and use this as the sticking medium 
with which to put on the decalcomania 
transfer. 

You are now armed with the materials 
necessary to finish furniture novelties 
and can proceed to finish the furniture. 

The first thing you do is to apply a 
coat of the brushing lacquer. When ap- 
plying this always flow it on. That is; 
fill your brush full of material and 
spread it out but do not work back and 
forth as you do when using a house 
paint. This is important. 

When applying lacquer it is opera- 
tive that you work fast as the lacquer 
dries very rapidly and if you do not 
brush on the material as fast as you can 
your work will be full of runs and 

Str Wmle' applying the material it is a 

that the material cannot run up or down. 

S*2 ^ttZS, 2X in and a=t S a, on 
Sndercoat T which the two sncceedmg 

C °H v°ou e wish ?W nice nnished Kt 
rather than three ™ K work( it g 
X5?B*£ Tapply several light coat, 
ratter than a few heavy coats. 



LACQUERS 



440 

YOT should allow each coat .tout one 
ceciling ooat. Mo t bn** 
SSfd^S atont ^ — £ 

coats and the nnai w« determine 
oughlj dry you will *^ C J££ is sat is- 
of your own accord if tne wor* 

therefore when using an orange, ycliow 
or a plain ^hite lacquer enamel it is 
necessfry to apply more coats to get the 

^ce'th^wk has been lacquered it 
is now ready to be striped. Practice 
on some odd panels before you attempt 
to apply the stripe on the furniture you 
are finishing because it takes a little ex- 
perience for one to draw a smooth, 
straight line. A good eye, a steady 
hand and continuous practice are the 
things that make one a good striper. 

After you have striped the work you 
can put on one or more decalcomanias, 
depending upon the kind of furniture 
you are finishing. "We advised above, 
how to apply these., with the use of white 
damar varnish. However in all proba- 
bilities you will be able to get good in- 
structions for putting these on at the 
store where they are purchased. 

Decalcomanias are very popular as 
they are much cheaper to apply than it 
would he to have the work painted by 
an artist. Furthermore it is now pos- 
sible to obtain beautiful transfers, where 
flowers and other work done by na- 
tionally known artists have been re- 
produced, 

F ELS ITURE LAC Q UER ENAM- 

These lacquer enamels have been de- 
signed mostly for inside use on various 
object; made of wood and metal. ToTv 

£JJ a , ge 0f colors > th e majority of 
wood and metal products are Shed 

Si a muir4rriiii r e r° r » : * 

to be hijhly Meom«f b ?V he y are not 
B«y recommended except for 



automobile finishing. In this case the 
surface is coated with an oxide p r im et 
made from un oil base tout the surfacing 
material which is next applied is usually 
from a pyroxylin base. As a general 
rule these enamels are applied with a 
spray gun since they do not brush well 
owing to their high viscosity. 

White Lacquer Enamel. — 
Cotton nitro-cellulose % 

second viscosity 1% pound, 

Damar Gum (solution 

formula) % pint 

Ester Gum (see solution 

formula) Vs pint 

Di-Butyl Phthalate (liq- 
uid ounces measure) . 6 ounces 
Titanox or Titanium Ox- 
ide (adv. weight) .... 27 ounces 

Zinc Oxide 10 ounces 

Butyl Acetate 2% pints 

Butyl Alcohol 1 pint 

Ethyl Acetate % pint 

Ethyl Alcohol % pint 

Toluol 3 pints 

Egg Shell White Enamel— Use the 
same formula as for Black Auto Enamel 
except use 2y 2 pounds white pigment 
consisting of 75% Titanox and 25% Zinc 
Oxide. Also instead of 6 ounces of 
Di-Butyl Phthalate use 10 ounces. 

High Gloss White Enamel.— Use 

same formulas as for Black Auto Lac- 
quer Enamel except for gum content. 
Instead of 1 pint of Damar Gum solu- 
tion use 2 pints and instead of 1% pints 
Ester Gum solution use 2 pints. This 
gives a white enamel carrying good gloss. 

Colors for Furniture Spraying.— Fo]- 
low out color mixing suggestions given 
under heading of Brushing Lacquers. 

FURNITURE LACQUER FOR- 
MULAS. 

No. 1 

Vfe second cotton 10 oun ^ 

Ester Gum 8 

Damar Gum » 0VJ0< S, 

Di-butyl Phthalate &h ol11 ^ 

Butyl Acetate 1 pound, 5 ounce* 

Butyl Alcohol « ^ 

Ethyl Acetate 3 oW,G f 

Ethyl Alcohol 1 pound 

Toluol 2 pounds, 1 ^ cc 

*, No " 2 1 pound 

78 second cotton * L,r,c 



Ester Gum - nce s 

Damar Gum * niinces 

Di-Butyl Phthalate ■ • ? ° 

Butyl Acetate 1 pound, 9 ° nl 



4 ounces 



LACQUERS 



441 



_ , 7 ounces 

^Acetate-:;::.: **»«; 

Toluol 1 P° und ' 8 ounces 

The Furniture Lacquer No. 1 is 
the heavy bodied lacquer and this fur- 
Sa is for a lacquer ready to spread. 
No thinning is usually required for 
fitter No. 1 or No. 2. Both Lacquers 
Se excellent for spray work on furni- 
ture, level out well, give good full body, 
S pray nice and will rub good. 

UNIVERSAL THINNERS. 

As a general rule Lacquer Manufac- 
turers supply lacquers to the factories 
and consumers in a consistency that 
makes them ready for brushing or spray- 
ing without reducing or thinning them. 
However sometimes enamels are supplied 
rather thick and before they can be 
brushed or sprayed or applied in any 
way they must be thinned down with a 
thinner. A thinner is a liquid consisting 
of about the same solvents that go into 
the making of the lacquer or lacquer 
enamel. This is especially true if the 
same manufacturer who supplies the lac- 
quer supplies the thinner. However, 
there are many consumers who use a 
lacquer made by one company and a 
thinner by another and get good results 
even though the composition of both be 
somewhat different. Because of this we 
are listing a number of formulas for 
making thinners which can be called Uni- 
versal Thinners in that most of them 
will work with any Lacquer Product on 
the market. Starting with No. 1 we list 
six formulas the first one being the low- 
est grade and No. 6 being the highest 
grade. No. 1 will answer purposes for 
most uses but in hot, sultry weather 
when there is a great amount of humid- 
ity in the air, the applied film may suck 
in some of this moisture and on such 
days we suggest the use of a higher 
grade thinner than No. 1. The higher 
tha grade the less chance for a film 
brushing in humid weather. These thin- 
ners are not to be used for thinning 
Brushing Lacquers. Use the special 
Brushing Lacquer Thinner formulas. 
The formulas are written and must be 
formulated by the percentage method 
as for instance in No. 1. 14% Butyl 
I Acetate, 5% Ethyl Alcohol, etc. 

Nos. 1 % 3 4 5 6 

Butyl Acetate. . .14 9 21 20 30 25 

' Butyl Alcohol...— 5 12 10 11 10 

I Ethyl Alcohol . . 5 8 — 6 — 10 

Ethyl Acetate ..15 11 — — — — 

Toluol 66 67 6T 65 69 55 



The uce for a cleaning thinner is quite 
common in factories for washing lacquer 
and colors from the hands and for 
cleaning brushes and spray guns, etc. 
This must be a cheap product and still 
one which works well. The one we list 
herewith is very simple but it works 
very well. 

Ethyl Acetate, '' 65% 
V.M.P. Naptha, 35% 

There are any number of Thinners 
used for Brushing Lacquers but we list 
herewith two prominent ones which will 
serve to reduce most any grade of 
Brushing Lacquer satisfactorily. 

No. 1 No. 2 

Butyl Propionate 10% 

Butyl Acetate 5% 20% 

Butanol 15% 6% 

Diacetone Alcohol 5% 

Xylol 65% 

L.D. Naptha 50% 

Ethyl Acetate 15% 

Ethyl Alcohol, Dena- 
tured 1°% 

GOLD PAINTS, BRONZING LIQ- 
UIDS. 

A Bronzing Liquid is a conveying so- 
lution which carries in it aluminum or 
copper powders which are used as coat- 
ings for chandeliers, novelties, picture 
frames, etc. These liquids must not con- 
tain free acid because the acid causes 
the bronze to turn green and the solution 
to gelatinize. Usually a very high vis- 
cosity cotton (commonly called nitrocel- 
lulose) is used as the basic solid and 
sometimes additional gum or resm is in- 
corporated into the solution. Special 
cotton for this purpose is ^ 
and sold by the nitrators. Also a thick 
solution is considered most desirable for 
trildinjr or bronzing objects as it gives 
I tool thick film, which, deposited over 

tective coating. In cases w . 
ic not thick enough an additional coai 
of the clear bronzing liquid can be ap- 

heavy to .f h ru * i8 or ^P t r S a l. The formula 

f 0rmu |a a 
f ? r Tr formula and never advisable to 
To a stmmS tbtantag formula with a 
Squid. It is not advisable to mix up a 



LACQUERS 

441A 

^atKion takes P^™^- 

3 being the cheapest grade. 

No. 1 No - 2 



No. 3 



4 ozs. 3 o^* 



pt. 
pt. 



% pt. 
1 pt. 

I pt. 



pt. 
pt. 



pt. 

pt. 

pt 
pt. 



oz. 



Cotton- 40 sec- 
ond B. liqwd 
Viscosity . . .* ozs - 

Butyl Acetate 
(solvent fcr 
cotton) 1 

Ethyl Acetate-. . V* 

Amyl Acetate . % pt- 

Butyl Alcohol 
(known as 
Butanol) Vs pt. 

Toluol IVs P*' 

Denatured Al- 
cohol 

Benzol ........ 

Ester Gum 
(glycernized 
rosin) 

In all formulas the Cotton is dissolved 
in the Butyl and Ethyl Acetates. Where 
the formula calls for a resin like in No. 
3 the Resin is dissolved in the Toluol or 
Benzol. Then slowly add the gum solu- 
tion after it is thoroughly dissolved into 
the cotton solution after that is all dis- 
solved. Then add the denatured alcohol 
slowly. Last add the Butyl Alcohol. 
"Where the formula calls for no gum or 
Tesin as in numbers One and Two the 
cotton is dissolved thoroughly in the 
Butyl, Ethyl and Amyl Acetates. Then 
the Butyl Alcohol added and last of 
all the Toluol is SLOWLY added al- 
ways stirring fast to prevent a local 
precipitation. 

AUTOMOBILE LACQUERS- 
BLACK AND COLORS. 

It would be impossible to list a for- 
mula for every known color of automo- 

™ J f q ™ ename i because of la <* of 
space. There are however a few rules 
that can be followed by the amateur 

most any shade he desires. First the 

uZtZ V? T de and into ™ d a 
color Tare ^ S and 

« basic re cof r d Th u r z ft vri ^ 

xnen oy mter-rmxiriff 

Are n»™ _1 n _ a 



Jrimarv coin™ I. ™t efore llst onl y the 
^oruiSnUy^Ud ^Td **** ■ m ° St 




2 pounds 

1 Pint sol. 

IVa pint sol. 
6 ounces 
V2 ounce 



an art, acquired only by careful p ra , 
tice and experience. r 

Black Auto Lacquer Enamel-. 
Cotton (Nitro-Cellulose) 

y z second. 

Ester Gum (see ins. 

making solution) 

Pamar Gum (see ins. 

making solution) . . . 
Di-Butyl Phthalate . . . 
Chinese Blue Pigment. . 
Super Spectra Carbon 

Black 2% ounces 

Butyl Acetate 1% pounds 

Butyl Alcohol (Butanol) a / 2 pound 

Ethyl Acetate 1^ pounds 

Toluol 1% pounds 

By making up this above formula and 
leaving out the Black and Blue Pigment 
colors you will get a clear lacquer solu- 
tion. Into this solution you can add 
ground colors or grind them in with the 
mill yourself, to obtain any shade de- 
sired. To know the approximate pro- 
portions of the colors needed to make 
various enamels, use the scale given un- 
der the headings ''Brushing Lacquers." 
Since auto lacquers are to be sprayed 
on and not applied with a brush a slight 
increase in the amount of pigments can 
be made because a denser covering prod- 
uct is necessary. Also, because this for- 
mula given herewith contains much more 
solid matter than the clear brushing lac- 
quer formulas, it will carry more pig- 
ment per gallon. 

STOCK DAMAR GUM SOLUTION. 

Dissolve 2% lbs. of Damar Gum in the 
following mixture of solvents, P/s V il r 
Benzol, % pint Ethyl Acetate, % pPl 
Acetone. After this' has been stirred, 
and allowed to dissolve completely l|s 
pints of Denatured Alcohol arc addeo. 
This gives a milkv solution which mu^ 
be allowed several days to comply 
settle. Then the milky part WjuW g 
reality is the wax in the gum, settlu \ he 
the bottom and forms a hard cake, , 
wiper clear part is scooped or p° 
off. This last is the de-waxed V** 
Solution and in a gallon of this S©W^ 
there is 3 pounds of solid Damar. 
if your formula calls for 1% P°7U 
Damar Gum you would put in a ,3 qq& 
Ion of Damar Solution. Dama r ^ 
cannot be used in a lacquer untu 
been de-waxed. 

ESTER GUM SOLUTION- 

Dissolve 2 pounds of Ester 
1% pints Toluol and */ 2 P^ 1 



Gu* J 



LACQUERS 



441B 



Ethyl Acetate. This makes a solution 
containing 4 pounds of Ester Gum to a 
gallon of Ester Gum Solution. If your 
formula calls for 1 pound of Ester Gum 
put in a quart of Ester Gum Solution. 

PYROXYLIN CEMENTS. 

For mending leather belting and other 
such products the following Cement will 
serve very well. Usually the products 
consists of an 8 ounce cotton solution in 
various solvent mixtures. 

High Viscosity Cotton., 8 ounces 

Ester Gum 2 ounces 

Castor Oil 2 ounces 

Ethyl Acetate 1 quart 

Denatured Alcohol tyg pints 

Butyl Acetate % pint 

Benzol 2 quarts 

Pharmaceutical Collodion 

High Viscosity Cotton. . .8 ounces 

Ether 3 quarts 

Alcohol 1 quart 

Butyl Acetate solutions are also being 
used today and it is claimed that they 
give a better product than the one given 
above. Camphor can be used to make up 
a flexible Collodion product. Three 
ounces or less can be used to each gallon 
of finished product. 

AIRPLANE DOPE AND FIN- 
ISHES. 

Various formulas are used by dif- 
ferent manufacturers of airplane dopes 
and there is some difference of opinion 
as to which is the best formula. We will 
give herewith two accepted ones. 

U. S. Patent No. 1, 320, 458 (this for- 
mula is patented). 

Nitrated Cotton (high 

viscosity) 8 ounces 

Ethyl Acetate 30% 

Diaeetane Alcohol 4% 

Butanol 16% 

Benzol 50% 

Boiled Bapeseed Oil .... 16 ounces 

The eight ounces of cotton are mixed 
with a gallon of the above solvents and 
rapeseed oil is then added. 

Heavy Bodied Dope 

High Viscosity Cotton, . . 8 ounces 
Low Viscosity Cotton (% 

second) 26 ounces 

Ethyl Acetate 25% 

Denatured Alcohol 12%% 

Butyl Acetate 12%% 

Benzol 25% 

Toluol 25% 

Castor Oil 4 ounces 



The cotton is dissolved into the Ace- 
tates and when thoroughly dissolved the 
alcohols are added slowly. Then the 
Benzol and Toluol are added very, very 
slowly, stirring rapidly to avoid a pre- 
cipitation of the cotton and after it is 
all into solution Castor oil is added. 

GOLD LACQUERS. 

Liquid Bottle Lac— Into a half -gallon 
bottle put 8 ounces of shellac, and pour 
over it 1% pints of alcohol of 94 per cent, 
and 2% ounces of sulphuric ether. Let 
stand, with occasional shaking, until the 
Shellac is melted, and then add 4 ounces 
of thick turpentine and y 2 ounce of boric 
acid. Shake until dissolved. To color, 
use the aniline colors soluble in alcohol — 
for red, eosine; blue, phenol blue; black, 
negrosin; green, aniline green; violet, 
methyl violet, etc. If it is desired to have 
the lac opaque, add 8 ounces of pulverized 
steatite, but remember to keep the lac 
constantly stirred while using, as other- 
wise the steatite falls to the bottom. 

Lithographic Lacquer. — Dissolve IE 
parts, by weight, of red lithol R or G in 
paste of 17 per cent, in 350 parts, by 
weight, of hot water. Boil for 2 minutes, 
shaking with 2.5 parts, by weight, of 
barium chloride. Dissolve in 25 parts, 
by weight, of water. Add to the mixture 
100 parts, by weight, of aluminum hy- 
drate of about 4 per cent. Cool, filter, 
and dry. 

Lacquer for Microscopes, Mathemat- 
ical Instruments, etc.— Pulverize 160 
parts, by weight, turmeric root, cover it 
with 1,700 parts alcohol, digest in a warm 
place for 24 hours, and then filter. Dis- 
solve 80 parts dragon's blood, 80 parts 
sandarac, 80 parts gum elemi, 50 parts 
gum gutta, and 70 parts seed lac, put in 
a retort with 250 parts powdered glass, 
pour over them the colored alcohol first 
made, and hasten solution by warming in 
the sand or water bath. When complete- 
ly dissolved, filter. 

To Fix Alcoholic Lacquers on Metal- 
lic Waces,— Dissolve 0.5 parts of crys- 
ulefbo'radc acid in 100 
respective spirit varnish whereby the lat- 
LTafter be^ng applied forms so hard a 
coatine upon a smooth tin surface that 
■ t Sot be scratched off even with the 
finger-nails. The aforementioned per- 
eerltaee of boracic acid should not be 
exceeded in preparing the solution } other- 
wise the varnish will lose in intensity of 
color. 



LAMPBLACK— LARD 



: 



m 

Jl obtained in tne i_ ne aS far as 

£ d ° freed naphthakne ^ & 

possible, ^-/f ' oduction of various 
Sal furnace f° r . { h * * r0 T n this furnace is 
Sdes of l^K^t always be kept 
l n iron plate, the soot od 

glowing; upon ^ g» fixed above 
trickles through asmai e (soot) 
I It is djccm^^iS through S-a 
riS es into toU J J- 1 au antity of oil des 
apertures. V/ hen the <l™ J used u p, 
tined for decompc , rhor .has d . 
the furnace is arld only after 
turbed for a few J^ 9 ' tbe chambers 
this time has .elapsed are t ^ 

opened bf * thfi 

purpose. In whidi the lithog- 

Sery finest l^P^^Srd the fine 



n ftpr one is satisfied that the soot hai 
cooled completely. Chamber 4 contain! 
3£ finest soot black, destined for the 
manufacture of leather cloth and oil cloth 
Tn the other chambers is fine and ordil 
„n rr flame black, which is sifted and 
packed in suitable barrels. Calcined 
lampblack may also be produced from it, 
the operation being the same as for oil 

black. 

LAMP BURNERS AND THEIR 
CARE: 

See Household Formulas. 
LAMPS: 



rotate quickly, bulb down, till dry. 

For office desks, room lights, and in 
churches, it appears often desirable to 
modify the glaring yellowish rays of the 
incandescent light. ^A.jlight JoBodwm 



d/ rd is sold as flame lampblack incandescent light. A siignt couoo 

From /rade No 1 the calcined lamp- fflm of a delicate bluish, greenish, 
MackTo/paper makers is also produced. ghade will do that. 

For ptSaring this black capsules of iron P For advertis ing purposes the bulbs 
mate P w?th closing lid are filled, the stuff nftm coloTed m two C r more colors. 
I stamped flmSy into them and the 
cover smeared up with fine loam. The 
next nlaced m a wen uid.w 



or 



cover smeared up with hue loarn juu 
capsules are next placed in a well draw 
ing stove and calcined, whereby the em- 
pyreumatic oils evaporate and the re- 
maining lampblack becomes odorless. 
Allow the capsules to cool for a few days 
before opening them, as the soot dries 
very slowly, and easily ignites again as 
Soon as air is admitted if the capsules 
are opened before. This is semi-calcined 
lampblack. 

For the purpose of preparing com- 
pletely calcined lampblack, the semi- 
calcined article is again jammed into 
fresh capsules, closing them up well and 
calcining thoroughly once more. After 
2 days the capsules are opened contain- 
ing the all-calcined lampblack in com- 
pact pieces. 

For the manufacture of coal soot an- 
other furnace is employed. Asphalt or 
pitch is burned in it with exclusion of 
air as far as practicable. It is thrown 
in through the doors, and the smoke 
escapes through the chimney to the soot 
chambers, 1, 2, 3, i, and 5, assorting it- 
self there. 

When the amount of asphalt pitch des- 
tined for combustion has burned up com- 
pletely, the furnace is left alone for sev- 
eral days without opening it. Afte 



nk shade will do tnat. 
For advertising purposes the bulbs are 
often colored in two or more colors. It 
is also easy with a little practice to punt 
words or pictures, etc., on the bulbs with 
colored collodion with a brush 

Another use of colored collodion a 
pharmacy is to color the show globes J 
their inside, thus avoiding ft fw«J «J 
the additional weight of the now used 
colored liquids. Pour a fliiartrfy of j£ 
ored collodion into the F^'^f ° e ! 
close tbe mouth and quickly let the 
lodion cover all parts of the m Bj 
move the balance of the j^*^ 
once, and keep it to color electric 
for your trade. 

LARD: . Lar d. 

Detection of Cottonseed Ou in ^ 
—Make a 2 per cent solution vi ^ 
nitrate in distilled water, and «^ <j 
by adding 1 per cent of nitrax » rf ^ 
P. Into a test tube put a samp ^ jj 
suspected lard and heat g^^tity * 
liquefies. Now add an equal qua ^ ^ 
+1^ c iitt Q ^ ,>it^nt c crtlnr.ion, agn»V c i.„i1ifi£ 



irni / ' '" rna ce is lett alone for sev- 
eral days without opening it. After this 

S a °E and some air is admitted 
■« they can be opened altogettu 



ter 



by adding 1 per cent of nltr ^ nl 0 f 
P. Into a test tube put a samp ^ ;j 
suspected lard and heat g^^tity * 
liquefies. Now add an equal ^ qu* ^ ^ 
the silver nitrate solution, agna ^jng 
and bring to a boil. Continue tne Jf the 
vigorously for about 8 minut^- ^ 
lard remain clear and ^ ot1 £&b& f ( 
be accepted as pure. The I jtsei 
cottonseed oil or fat will JJJ» ^ 
known by a coloration, va ^ a cCO r0 
yellow, grayish green to bro « 
ing to the amount present. 

LATHE LUBRICANT: 

See Lubricants. 



i 



LAUNDRY PREPARATIONS 



LAUNDRY INKS: 

See Household formulas. 

Laundry Preparations 

BLUING COMPOUNDS: 

Laundry Blue, — The soluble blue of 
commerce, when properly made, dis- 
solves freely in water, and solutions so 
made are put up as liquid laundry blue. 
The water employed m making the solu- 
tion should be free from mineral sub- 
stances, especially lime, or precipitation 
ma y occur. If rain water or distilled 
water and a good article of blue be used, 
a staple preparation ought apparently to 
result; but whether time alone affects 
the matter of solubility it is impossible 
to state. As it is essential that the solu- 
tion should be a perfect one, it is best to 
filter it through several thicknesses of 
fine cotton cloth before bottling; or if 
made in large quantities this method 
may be modified by allowing it to stand 
some days to settle, when the top portion 
can be siphoned off for use, the bottom 
only requiring filtration. 

This soluble blue is said to be potas- 
sium ferri-ferrocyanide, and is prepared 
by gradually adding to a boiling solution 
of potassium ferricyanide (red prussiate 
of potash) an equivalent quantity of hot 
solution of ferrous sulphate, boiling for 
2 hours and washing the precipitate on a 
filter until the washings assume a dark- 
blue color; the moist precipitate can then 
at once be dissolved by the further ad- 
dition of a sufficient quantity of water. 
About 64 parts of the iron salt are neces- 
sary to eon vert 100 parts of the potassium 
salt into the blue compound. 

Leaf bluing for laundry use may be 
prepared by coating thick sized paper 
with soluble blue formed into a paste 
with a mixture of dextrin mucilage and 
glycerine. Dissolve a given quantity 
of dextrine in water enough to make a 
solution about as dense as ordinary 
syrup, add about as much glycerine as 
there was dextrine, rub the Tblue smooth 
with a sufficient quantity of this vehicle 
and coat the sheets with the paint. The 
amount of blue to be used will depend 
of course an the intended cost or the 
product, and the amount of glycerine will 
require adjustment so as to give a mixture 
which will not "smear" after the water 
has dried out and yet remain readily sol- 
uble. 

Ultramarine is now very generally used 
as a laundry blue where the insoluble or 
"bag blue" is desired. It is mixed with 
glucose, or glucose and dextrine, and 



pressed into balls or cakes. When glu- 
cose alone is used, the product has a 
tendency, it is said, to become soft on 
keeping, which tendency may be coun- 
teracted by a proper proportion of dex- 
tnn - (( Bmarbonate of sodium is added 
as a "filler" to cheapen the product, the 
quantity used and the quality of the 
ultramarine employed being both regu- 
lated by the price at which the product 
is to sell. 

The coal-tar or aniline blues are not 
offered to the general public as laundry 
blues, but laundry proprietors have 
them frecjuently brought under their 
notice, chiefly in the form of solutions, 
usually 1 to 1£ per cent strong. These 
dyes are strong bluing materials, and, 
being in the form of solution, are not 
liable to speck the clothes. Naturally 
their properties depend upon the par- 
ticular dye used; some are fast to acids 
and alkalies, others are fast to one but 
not to another; some will not stand iron- 
ing, while others again are not affected 
by the operation; generally they are not 
fast to light, but this is only of minor im 
portance. The soluble, or cotton, blue- 
are those most favored; these are made 
in a great variety of tints, varying from a 
reddish blue to a pure blue in hue, dis- 
tinguished by such brands as 3K, GB, 
etc. Occasionally the methyl violets 
are used, especially the blue tints. 
Blackley blue is very largely used for this 
purpose, being rather faster than th 
soluble blues. It may be mentjone 
that a 1 per cent solution of this dye ; 
usually strong enough. Unless care i_ 
taken in dissolving these dyes they are 
apt to produce specks. The heat to 
which the pure blues are exposed m iron- 
ing the clothes causes some kinds to 
assume a purple tinge. 

The cheapest aniline blue costs about 
three times as much as soluble blue, yet 
the tinctorial power of the aniline colors 
is so great that possibly they might be 
cheapened. 

Soluble Blue. — I. — Dissolve 217 parte 
of prussiate of potash in 800 parts of hot 
,,,1.. „ n d bring the whole to l.OUU parts. 
Likewise di "five 100 parts of feme 
cMorTde in water and bring the solution 
also to 1,000 parts. To each of these 
solutions add 2,000 parts of cooking 
solutions, , , solutlon saturated 



salt or Glauber's a 
in the cold and mix well 



The solutions 



thus orepared of prussiate of potash arid 
ferric SSoride are now mixed together 
ISE stirring. Allow to sett e and re- 
move by suction the clear liquid con- 
£?n?ng undecomposed ferrocyamde of 



444 



j rinnber's salt; this is w 
potassium and Glauber ss ^ ^ ^y 
and «ed for the next m saltg fco 

boiling it down an d altowing ^ 
^tafh-ou, Theper g g 

the next production 
is used, employing 



LAUNDRY PREPARATIONS 

It; this is kept 



crysta 

anafysS/and for 



M warm w£ 



water running o 



commences to assume 

manner as indigo carmine. 

II —Make ordinary Prussian blue 
(that which has been purified by acids 
chlorine, or the hypochlorites) into a 
thick paste with distilled or ram water, 
and add a saturated solution of oxalic 
acid sufficient to dissolve. If time be ot 
no consequence, by leaving this solution 
exposed to the atmosphere, m the course 
of 60 days the blue will be entirely pre- 
cipitated in soluble form. Wash with 
weak alcohol and dry at about 100° i. 
The resultant mass dissolves in pure 
water and remains in solution indefi- 
nitely. It gives a deep, brilliant blue, 
and is not injurious to the clothing or 
the hands of the washwoman. 

The same result may be obtained by 
precipitating the soluble blue from its 
oxide solution by the addition of alcohol 
of 95 per cent, or with a concentrated solu- 
tion of sodium sulphate. Pour off the 
mother liquid and wash with very dilute 
alcohol; or throw on a filter and wash 
with water until the latter begins to come 
off colored a deep blue. 

Liquid Laundry Blue.— This may be 
prepared either with liquid Prussian blue 
or indigo carmine. Make a solution of 
gum dragon (gum tragacanth) by dis- 
solving 1 to 2 ounces of the powdered 
gum m 1 gallon of cold water in which 1 
ounce oxalic acid has been dissolved! 
Ibe gum will take several days to dis- 
solve and a i ire f y t? J™ 

Dortion am iT bef ° re V Se ' To the strained 
IZ ™J a ? d as ^ uch Prussian blue in 
without t^ 3 -^ UquM wiU dissoI ve 

S oluU ea p ru LPr^ ed P ^ SS ;an blue, 

&aA^^ d sst 



not 



cated for the use of laundresses, aa W 
would set up blood poisoning should t 
get into any cuts in the flesh, it is b est t ' 
prepare liquid blue by making a SQ i uti ° 
of yellow prussiate of potash (ferrucva 
nide of potassium) with water, and ifi e " 
by adding a sufficient quantity oE chW 
ide of iron to produce a blue, but 
enough to be precipitated. 

Ball Blue.— The ball sold for laundry 
use consists usually, if not always, 0 f 
ultramarine. The balls are formed by 
compression, starch or some other ex- 
cipient of like character being added to 
render the mass cohesive. Blocks of 
blue can, of course, be made by the same 
process. The manufacturers of ultra- 
marine prepare balls and cubes of the 
pigment on a large scale, and it does 
not seem likely that there would be a 
sufficient margin of profit to justify the 
making of them in a small way "from 
the powdered pigment. Careful experi- 
ments, however, would be necessary to 
determine this positively. _ Ultramarine 
is of many qualities, and it may be ex- 
pected that the balls will vary also in the 
amount of "filling" according to the 
price at which they are to be sold. 
Below is a "filled" formula: 

Ultramarine 6 ounces 

Sodium carbonate 4 ounces 

Glucose 1 ounce 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Make a thick paste, roll into sheets, 
and cut into tablets. The balls in bulk 
can be obtained only in large packages 
of the manufacturers, say barrels of w» 
pounds; but put up in 1- pound boxes 
they can be bought in cases as small as it 
pounds. 

Laundry Blue Tablets.— 

Ultramarine 6 ounces 

Sodium carbonate.. . . 4 ounces 

Glucose l. ounce 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Make a thick paste, roll into sheets, 
and cut into tablets. 

Polishes or Glaze, for Laundry Wofjj 
— I- — To a mixture of 200 
Japan wax and paraffine, add IV jUfo 
of stearic acid, melt together, anac _ ^ 
molds. If the heated smoothing 1 ^ 
rubbed with this wax the iron -J j» ^ 
merely get over the surface mllC i; s h. 
rapidly, but will leave a handsome y 

Laundry Gloss Dressing. 
II- — Dissolve white wax, 5.0 
ether, 20,5 parts, and add 



parts. Shake before use. 
Heat until melted, in a pot. 



■0 

spirit, i» 

1,000 p flfts 



LAUNDRY PREPARATIONS 



445 



of wax and 1,000 parts of stearine, as well 
a few drops of an essential on. lo 
the hot liquid add with careful stirring 
250 parts of ammonia lye of 10 percent, 
whereby a thick, soft mass results im- 
mediately. Upon further heating same 
turns thin again, whereupon it is diluted 
with 20,000 parts of boiling water, mixed 
with 100 parts of starch and poured into 
molds. 
STARCHES. 

Most laundrv starches now contain 
some polishing mixture for giving a high 
luster. 

j Dissolve in a vessel of sufficient 

capacity, 42 parts of crystallized mag- 
nesium chloride in 30 parts of water. 
In another vessel stir 12 parts of starch 
in 20 parts of water to a smooth paste. 
Mix the two and heat under pressure until 
the starch is fluidified. 

II. — Pour 250 parts, by weight, of 
water, over 5 parts, by weight, of pow- 
dered gum tragacanth until the powder 
swells uniformly; then add 750 parts, by 
weight, of boiling water, ^ dissolve 50 
parts, by weight, of borax in it, and stir 50 

Earts, by weight, of stearine and 50 parts, 
y weight, of talcum into the whole. 
Of this fluid add 250 parts to 1,000 parts 
of boiled starch, or else the ironing oil 
is applied by means of a sponge on the 
starched wash, which is then ironed. 

By weight 

III.— Starch 1,044 parts 

Borax 9 parts 

Common salt 1 part 

Gum arabic 8 parts 

Stearine 20 parts 

WASHING FLUIDS, BRICKS AND 
POWDERS : 

Washing Fluids. — Rub up 75 parts of 
milk of sulphur with 125 parts of glycer- 
ine in a mortar, next add 50 parts of 
camphorated spirit and 1 part of lav- 
ender oil, and finally stir in 250 parts of 
rose water and 1,000 parts of d .tilled 
water. The liquid must be stirred ecn- 
stantly when filling it into bottles, since 
the sulphur settles rapidly and would 
thus be unevenly distributed. 

Grosser's Washing Brick. — 

Water . . 54 parts 

Sodium hydrate. . . . 38.21 parts 

Sodium biborate 6.61 parts 

sodium silicate 1.70 parts 

Haenkel's Bleaching Solution. — 

Water ■ 36.15 parts 

Sodium hydrate. . . . 40.22 parts 
Sodium silicate 23.14 parts 



Luhn's Washing Extract. — 

34.50 parts 

bodium hydrate. . 25.88 parts 

boa P 39.40 parts 

Washing Powders. — 
I. — Sodium carbonate, 

partly effloresced. 2 parts 
Soda ash i p ari 

II. — Sodium carbonate, 

partly effloresced. 6 parts 

Soda ash 3 p ar t s 

Yellow soap 1 part 

III. — Sodium carbonate, 

partly effloresced 3 parts 
Soap bark 1 part 

IV. — Sodium carbonate,^ 

partly effloresced I Equal 

Borax j parts. 

Yellow soap J 

V. — A good powder can be mad 
from 100 parts of crystal soda, 25 parts 
of dark-yellow rosin-cured soap, and 5 
parts of soft soap. The two latter are 
placed in a pan, along with one-half the 
soda (the curd soap being cut into small 
lumps), and slowly heated, with con- 
tinual crutching, until they are thorough- 
ly melted — without, however, beginning 
to boil. The fire is then drawn and the 
remaining soda erutched in until it, too, 
is melted, this being effected by the resid- 
ual heat of the mass and the pan. The 
mass will be fairly thick by the time the 
soda is all absorbed. After leaving a 
little longer, with occasional stirring, the 
contents are spread out on several thin 
sheets of iron m a cool room, to be then 
turned over by the shovel at short in- 
tervals, in order to further cool and break 
down the mixture. The soap will then 
be in a friable condition, and can be 
rubbed through the sieve, the best re- 
sults being obtained bv passing through 
a coarse sieve first, and one of finer mesh 
afterwards. With these 
fine yellow-colored powder will be ob 
tainea White stock soap may also be 
used and, if desired, colored with palm 
mf and the same colorings as are wed for 
oil ana xiib f» rt M e ct of adding soft 

t0 „'i? rrto incTeie thfsolubilit/ and 
soap is to mere b t ^ pro p 0 ,. 

SfSJd 1 o h uXot d £ceed one-fhird of 

hard soap, « 

T forgoing prXct is gA the 
of j Stable and not liable to 

KalY ever after prolonged storage: 
ball, even " 1 .1 r) aDer J n which it 

therefor* 

lhe P packet S retain their appearance. 



446 



LAUNDRY PREPARATIONS LEAKS 



I„ making ^^lTTllr%7- 
nose on or ib" «■* . mo e+.irfe. 



PVme b added at the same stage 




Sd 'unTer "constant stirring, i part of 
ffi? strongest ™**Jj£f™i ho'urs, 

hour or sohi a dilute solution of sodium 
h^osulpEite, remove, add to the .so ution 
sufficient dilute hydrochloric acid to de 
compose the hyposulphite Replace the 
goods, cover the tub closely, and let re- 
Lain for 15 minutes longer, ihen re- 
move the running water, if convenient, 
and if not, wring out quickly, and rinse 
in clear water. One not an expert at 
such work must be very careful in the 
rinsing, as care must be taken to get out 
every trace of chemical. This is best 
done by a second rinsing. 

Ink for the Laundry. — The following 
is said to make a fine, jet-black laundry 
ink: 

a. Copper chIoride,erys- 

tals 85 parts 

Sodium chlorate. . .. 106 parts 
Ammonium chloride 53 parts 
Water, distilled 600 parts 

Glycerine 100 parts 

Mucilage gum arabic 
(gum, 1 part; 
water, 2 parts).. . . 200 parts 
Aniline hydrochlor- 

at?--- 200 parts 

Distilled water 300 parts 

Make solutions a and b and preserve in 
separate bottles. When wanted for use 
solution? 1 Solutian a with 4 P ar ts of 

Laces, Curtains, etc. — I. — To give lar^ 
g*t™. etc., a cream color, tak^l p.rt 

giv^tTem aiec g ru e ool tain K in ™l\ 



h. 



phia yellow" (G. or R of the Be rUa 

jUdiengesellschaft s scale). 

LAUNDRY SOAP: 
See Soap. 

LAVATORY DEODORANT: 

See Household Formulas. 

LAXATIVES FOR CATTLE AND 
HORSES : 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

LEAD : 

See also Metals. 

Simple Test for Red Lead and Orange 
Lead. — Take a little of the sample in a 
test tube, add pure, strong nitric acid and 
heat by a Buns en burner until a white, 
solid residue is obtained. Then add 
water, when a clear, colorless solution 
will be obtained. A white residue would 
indicate adulteration with barytes, a red 
residue or a yellow solution with oxide of 
iron. The presence of iron may be as- 
certained by adding a few drops of a 
solution of potassium fcrrocyanide (yel- 
low prussiate of potash) to the solution, 
when a blue precipitate will be obtained 
if there be the least trace of iron present. 

LEAD, TO TAKE BOILING, IN THE 
MOUTH: 

See Pyrotechnics. 

LEAD ALLOYS: 
See Alloys. 

LEAD PAPER: 

See Paper. 

LEAD PLATE, TINNED: 
See Plating, 

LEAKS, IN BOILERS, STOPPING: 

See Putties. 

LEAKS: 

To Stop Leakage in Iron Hot- Water 
Pipes.— Take some fine iron borings o 
filings and mix with them sufficient vip? 
gar +o form a sort of paste, '^jffJg; 
mixture is not adhesive. With this _ 
ture fill up the cracks where the leaK^ 
is found, having previously one ^ 




; + hv l> eC ^ 

may be securely fastened over n, . ^ s 
ding it on in paste made of the . u |d 
and vinegar as above, but the pip e r , 
not be disturbed until it has become r 
fectly dry. 

To Prevent Wooden Vessels 
Leaking. (See also Casks.) — 



LEATHER 



447 



vessels, such as pails, barrels, etc., often 
become so dry that the joints do not 
meet, thus causing leakage. In order to 
obviate this evil stir together 60 parts 
hog's lard, 40 parts salt, and S3 parts 
wax and allow the mixture to dissolve 
slowly over a fire. Then add 40 parts 
charcoal to the liquid mass. The leaks 
in the vessels are dried oil well and hJled 
up with putty while still warm. When 
the latter has become dry, the barrels, 
etc., will be perfectly tight. If any 
putty is left, keep in a dry place and 
heat it to be used again. 

Leather 

(See also Shoes.) 

Artificial Leather. — Pure Italian hemp 
is cut up hue; 1 part of this and \ part of 
coarse, cleaned wool are carded together 
and formed into wadding. This wad- 
ding is packed in linen and felted by 
treatment with hot acid vapors. The 
resulting felt is washed out, dried, and 
impregnated with a substance whose 
composition varies according to the 
leather to be produced. Thus, good 
sole leather, for instance, is produced 
according to a Danish patent, in the 
following manner: Mix together 50 parts 
of boiled linseed oil; 20 parts of colo- 
phony; 25 parts of French turpentine; 
10 parts of glycerine, and 10 parts of 
vegetable way, and heat over a water 
bath with some ammonia water. When 
the mass has become homogeneous, add 
25 parts of glue, soaked in water, as well 
as a casein solution, which latter is 
produced by dissolving 50 parts, by 
weight, of moist, freshly precipitated 
casein in \ saturated solution of 16 parts 
of borax and adding 10 parts of potas- 
sium bichromate, the last two also by 
weight. Finally, mineral dyestuffs as 
well as antiseptic substances may be 
added to the mass. The whole mixture 
is now boiled until it becomes sticky and 
the felt is impregnated with it Jay im- 
mersion. The impregnated felt is dried 
for 24- hours at an ordinary tempera- 
ture; next laid into a solution of alumi- 
num acetate and Gnally dried completely, 
dyed, and pressed between hot rollers. 

Black Dye for Tanned Leather. — This 
recipe takes the place of the ilbsmelling 
iron blacking, and is not injurious to the 
leather. Gallnuts, pulverized, 150 parts; 
vitriol, green or black, 10 parts; rock 
candy, 60 parts; alum, 15 parts; vinegar, 
250 parts; cooking salt, 20 parts. Dissolve 
with 4,000 parts of distilled water. 

Boil this solution slowly and the 



blacking is done. When it has cooled 
and settled, pour through linen, thus 
obtaining a pure, good leather blacking. 

Bronze Leather.— All sorts of skins— 
sheepskins, goatskins, coltskins, and 
light calfskins— are adapted for the 
preparation of bronze leather. In this 
preparation the advantage lies not only 
in the use of the faultless skins, but scari- 
fied skins and those of inferior quality 
may also be employed. The dressing 
of the previously tanned skin must be 
carried out with the greatest care, to pre- 
vent the appearance of spots and other 
faults. After tanning, the pelts are well 
washed, scraped, and dried. Then 
they arc bleached. For coloring, it is cus- 
tomary to employ methyl violet whic 1 
has previously been dissolved in ho 
water, taking 100 parts, by weight, o 
the aniline color to 8,000 parts, by weighs 
of water. If in the leather-drcssin 
establishment a line of steam piping b 
convenient, it is advisable to boil up a 1 
the coloring dyes, rather than simply t 
dissolve them; for in this way complet 
solution is effected. Where steam i 
used no special appliance is required fo 
boiling up the dyes, for this may tak 
place without inconvenience in th 
separate dye vats. A length of stea 
hose and a brass nozzle with a valve 
all that is needed. It may be as well t 
add here that the violet color for dyein 
may be made cheaper than as abov 
described. To 3,000 parts, by weight, 
of pretty strong logwood decoction add 
50 parts, by weight, of alum and 100 
parts, by weight, of methyl violet. This 
compound is almost as strong a:; the 
pure violet solution, and instead of 8,000 
parts, by weight, we now have 30,UUO 
parts, by weight, of color 

The color is applied and well worked 
in with a stiff brush, and the skins al- 
lowed to stand for a short time, sufficient 
to allow the dye to penetrate the pores 
when it is fulled. As for the shade of 
the bronze, it may be made redd sh, 
bluish or brownish, accord mg to taste. 

Fora reddish or brownish ground the 
toi simply fulled in warm water, 

th The 0 br e on f Z 0 e 1C ir S di 5S olved in alcohol 
i/ usual to take S00 ^arts bv 

S^ans JfTbS Sx^tfi p rf «Sj« 
By carts of the bronze are dis- 

solved For P a 'fundamental or thorough 



stated before using. »k «s may ^ 

1 the anXc dyes present a bronze ap- 
eVranS then Wy concentrated, and 
h£ is particularly the case with the 
iile and red dyes. If, therefore, the 
Met be applied in very strong solutions, 
- e effect w5l be much the same as when 
e regular bronze color is employed. 
Bronze color on a brown ground is he 
ost beautiful of all, and is used o the 
latest advantage when it is desirable 
to cover up defects. Instead of warm 
dear water in such a case, use a decoc- 
ion oHogwood to which a small quan- 
! ty o [ alum has been added and thus, 
during the fulling, impart to the skms a 
proper basic tint, which may, by the ap- 
lication of a little violet or bronze color, 
e converted into a most brilliant bronze. 
By no means is it to be forgotten that too 
much coloring matter will never produce 
the desired results, for here, as with the 
other colors, too much will bring out a 
greenish tint, nor will the gloss turn out 
so beautiful and clear. Next rinse the 
skins well in clean water, and air them, 
after which they may be dried with arti- 
ficial heat. Ordinary as well as dam- 
aged skins which are not suitable for 
chevreaux (kid) and which it is desirable 
to provide with a very high polish, in 
order the more readily to conceal the 
defects in the grain, and other imperfec- 
tions, are, after the drying, coated with a 
mixture, compounded according to the 
following simple formula: Stir well 1 
pint of ox blood and 1 pint of unboiled 
milk in 10 quarts of water, and with a 
soft sponge apply this to the surface oif 
the skin, The blood has no damaging 
effect upon the color. Skins thus mois- 
tened must not be laid one upon another, 
but must be placed separately in a thor- 
oughly well-warmed chamber to dry. 
When dry they are glossed, and may then 
be pressed into shagreen or pebbled. 
The thin light goatskins are worked Into 
kid or chevreaux. Properly speaking,, 
they are only imitation chevreaux (kid) 
for although they are truly goatskins, 
Tinder the term chevreaux one under- 
stands on y such skins as have been 

andflour ^ treated ^ ith album en 
After drying, these skins are drawn 

e round 
glossed 
vigorously brushed 
Jft. \ , • est Slde witn a stiff brush 
tfhe brushing should be done preferably 



Vu J Pi " Icae sKins are 
lift X P erchln B ?tiek with the 
knife, then glossed, stretched, 



again, and finally 
upon the flesh sid 



bv hand, for the brushing machinea 
commonly pull the skins out of all shape. 
Brushing is intended only to give the 
flesh side more of a flaky appearance. 

During the second glossing care must 
be taken that the pressure is light, for 
the object is merely to bring the skin 
back into its proper shape, lost in the 
stretching; the glossing proper should 
have been accomplished during the first 
operation. 

Cracked Leather.— The badly cracked 
and fissured carriage iurfacc greets the 
painter on every hand. The following 
is the recipe for filling up and facing over 
such a surface: Finest pumice stone, 6 
parts; lampblack (in bulk), 1 part; com- 
mon roughstuff filler, 3 parts. Mix to 
stiff paste in good coach japan, 5 parts; 
hard drying rubbing varnish, 1 part. 
Thin to a brushing consistency with 
turpentine, and apply 1 coat per day. 
Put on 2 coats of this filler and then 2 
coats o," ordinary roughstuff. Rub with 
lump pumice stone and water. This 
process docs not equal burning off in. 
getting permanently rid of the cracks, 
but when the price of painting forbids 
burning off, it serves as an effective sub- 
stitute. Upon a job that is well cared 
for, and not subjected to toe exacting 
service, this filler will secrete the cracks 
and fissures for from 3 to £ months. 

DRESSINGS FOR LEATHER: 

For Carriage Tops. — I.— Here is an 
inexpensive and quickly prepared dress- 
ing for carriage tops or the like: Take 
2 parts of common glue; soak and liquefy 
it over a fire. Three parts of castile 
soap are then dissolved over a moderate 
heat. Of water, 120 parts are added 
to dissolve the soap and glue, after which 
an intimate mixture of the ingredients is 
effected. Then 4 parts of spirit varnish 
are added; next. 2 parts of wheat starch, 
previously mixed in water, are thrown 
in. Lampblack in a su fficient quantity 
to give the mixture a good coloring P° W ^T' 
without killing the gloss, is now added. 
This preparation may be used as above 
prepared, or it may" be placed over a 
gentle fire and the liquid ingredients 
slowly evaporated. The evaporated mass 
is then liquefied with beer as shop needs 
demand. 

II.— Shabby dark leather will 
like new if rubbed over with either Un- 
seed oil or the well-beaten white of an 
egg mixed with a little black ink. P° 11S \ 
with soft dusters until quite dry an" 
glossy. 

Polishes. — I. — Dissolve sticklac ^ 



LEATHER 



449 



parts; shellac, 20 parts; and gum ben- 
zoin, 4 parts, all finely powdered, m a 
rolling cask containing 100 parts of 96 
per cent alcohol; perfume with 1 part of 
oil of rosemary. Upon letting stand for 
several days, filter the solution, where- 
upon a good glossy polish for leather, 
etc., will be obtained. 

II, — Dissolve 2 pounds of borax in 4 
gallons of water and add 5 pounds of 
shellac to the boiling liquid in portions, 
till all is dissolved. Then boil half an 
hour, and finally stir in 5 pounds of sugar, 
%h pour Is of glycerine, and \\ pounds 
of solid ., nigrosin. When col d add 4 
pounds of 95 per cent methylated spirit. 

III. — Ox blood, fresh, 

clean . 1,000 parts 

Commercial glyc- 
erine 200 parts 

Oil of turpentine. 300 parts 
Pine oil (rosin 

oil) 5,000 parts 

Ox gall ..... 200 parts 

Formalin 15 parts 

Mix in the order named, _ stirring in 
each ingredient. When mixed strain 
through linen. 

Kid Leather Dressings. — Creams for 
greasing fine varieties of leather, such as 
kid, patent leather, etc., are produced as 
follows, according to tried recipes: 

White Cream, — ■ 

Lard 75 parts 

Glycerine, technical . 25 parts 
Mirbanc oil, ad libitum. 

Black Cream. — 

Lard 100 parts 

Yellow vaseline 20 parts 

Glycerine, technical. 10 parts 

Castor oil, technical. 10 parts 
Dye black with lampblack and per- 
fume with oil of mirbane. 

Colored Cream. — - 

Lard 100 parts 

Castor oil 20 parts 

Yellow wax 25 parts 

White vaseline 30 parts 

Dye with any desired dyestuff, e. g., 
red with anchusine, green with chloro- 
phyl. In summer it is well to add some 
Wax to the first and second prescriptions. 
These are for either Morocco or kid: 

I. — Shellac 2 parts 

Benzoin 2 parts 

Yellow wax 5 parts 

Soap liniment 7 parts 

Alcohol 600 parts 

Digest until solution is effected, then 



for 1Q in, hqUld !° sta - nd in a cocI Place 
for 12 hours and strain. Apply w !th a 

bit of sponge or soft rag; spread thinly 

and evenly over the surface, without 

7 bb M g s Tu Ch - If dirt y> th^ leather 
should first be cashed with a little soft 
soap and warm water, wiped well, and 
allowed to dry thoroughfy before the 
dressing is put on. 

IL— 9 n of tur pentine ... 8 ounces 

g u jf 2 pounds 

§oft soap 8 ounce3 

Water 16 ounces 

Lampblack 4 ouncea 

Patent Leather Dressings. 

I. — Wax 22 p art s 

Olive oil 60 parts 

Oil turpentine, best . 20 parts 

Lavender oil 10 parts 

_ With gentle heat, melt the wax in th 
oil, and as soon as melted remove from 
the fire. Add the turpentine oil, in- 
corporate, and when nearly cold, add 
and incorporate the lavender oil. 

II. — Wax. 22 parts 

Olive oil 60 parts 

Oil of turpentine. ... 30 parts 
With gentle heat, melt the wax in th 
olive oil, and as soon as melted remoy 
from the fire. When nearly cold stir i 
the turpentine. 

Red Russia Leather Varnish. — 

Shellac 1.20 parts 

Dammar rosin, pow- 
dered 0.15 parts 

Turpentine, Venice . . 0.60 parts 
Dissolve with frequent shaking in 12 
parts of alcohol (95 per cent), add_ 1.8 
parts of powdered red sanders wood, le. 
stand for 3 days and filter. The object 
of this varnish is to restore the original 
color to worn Russia leather boots, pre- 
viously cleaned with benzine. 

Russet Leather Dressing.— The fol- 
lowing formulas are said to yield etb- 
cient preparations that are at .once de- 
tersive P and polishing, thus «^enng the 
use of an extra cleaning liquid unneces 

^Softsoap §£g 

Linseed oil... 3 P artS 

Annatto solution (m g ^ 

Befe.v.'.:::::: 3^ 

Turpentine ... g Pjjjj 

Water • r . 

Dissolve ft. rZlftjZZZTA "ou 
"oap sofutioi., stirring nnOl cold. 




LEATHER 



450 



II. 



16 parts 

-Palmm 1 ' " 48 parts 

Common soap gg parts 

Oleic acid. 1Q p ar ts 

Glycerine.. i part 

Tannic acid. . ■ ■ ■ - • - j toget her 

Melt the soap oleic" acid; 

at a gentle heat and act ]ycenne 

J»%5r P W«a mixture and 
iir until perfectly co d. 

Shoe Leather ^s^^of oil of 
bath 50 part * h ' t( 0 f olive 

turpentine; IOC i parts d e qi1 40 

DYEING LEATHER. 

Eyeing W^tI^S 

organic substances, such as leather, do 
not readily adapt themse Jvjs to the 
staining process, because a full brusmui 
of dye liquor would give a much deeper 
collation than a half-exhausted brush 
would give. Consequently, to alter and 
to color leather by the staining process 
results in a patchy coloration oi the skin. 
In the dyeing operation a amc shallow 
trough, 4 to 6 inches deep, is used, into 
which the dye liquor is put, and to pro- 
duce the best results the contents of the 
trough are kept at a uniform tempera- 
ture by means of a heating apparatus 
beneath the trough, such as a gas jet or 
two, which readily allows of a heat being 
regulated. The skins to be dyed are 
spread out flat in the dye trough, one at a 
time, each skin remaining in the dye 
liquor the time prescribed by the recipe. 
The best coloration of the skin is pro- 
duced by using 3 dye troughs of the 
same dye liquor, each of different 
strength, the skin being put in the 
weakest liquor first, then passed into the 
second, and from there into the third dye 
iquor, where it is allowed to remain 



11 



until its full depth of color is" obtained. 
Very great skill is required in th 



he cm- 



ploymeut of aniline dyes, as if the heat be 
too great, or the skins remain too long in 

ot^s tf 1 ' , W - in r oi the color 
■curs. The only remedy for th 



Sfsfi? ' 7 a> ; S effet!tUal S to sponge 
dbect lv iT lJ ' 1 ? l ? nt * ° f cold ' clean water, 
bath y 4V S ? ke , n ? ut of the final dye 

Leather Brown 

Extractor fustic. 
Extract of Uvt,^. 



ractof hyperni c ; 



5 ounces 
1 ounce 



Extract of logwood. . . } ounce 

Water & gallons 

Boil all these ingredients for 15 min 

utea, and then dilute with water to m a U 

10 gallons of dye liquor Tjse the dv! 

liquor at a temperature of 110° p. Je 
Mordant. — Dissolve 3 ounces of white 

tartar and 4 ounces of alum in iq gal _ 

Ions of water. 

Fast Brown. — Prepare a dye liquor by 
dissolving 1$ ounces fast brown in i g a f. 
Ion of water, and make a 10-gallon bulk 
of this. Use at a temperature of 110° P 
and employ the same mordanting li quo ' r 
as in last recipe. 

Bismarck Brown. — 

Extract of fustic. ... . 4 ounces 

Extract of hypernic. . 1 ounce 
Extract of logwood. . . Jounce 

Water 2 gallons 

Preparation. — Boil all together for 15 
minutes. _ 

Method of Dyeing. — First mordant 
the skins with a mordanting fluid made 
by dissolving 3 ounces tartar and $ ounce 
borax in 10 gallons of water. Then put 
the skins into the above foundation bath 
at a temperature of 100° F. Take them 
out, and then put in 1 ounce of Bismarck 
brown, dissolved in boiling water. Put 
the skins in again until colored deep 
enougii, then lift out, drip and dry. 

HARNESS PREPARATIONS: 

Blacking for Harness. — I. — In a water 
bath dissolve 90 parts of yellow wax in 
900 parts of oil of turpentine; aside irom 
this mix well together, all the ingredients 
being finely powdered, 10 parts ot Prus- 
sian blue, 5 parts of indigo, i>0 parts m 
bone black, and work this into a portion 
of the above-mentioned waxy so u ' 
Now throw this into the original sc i utio j 
which still remains in the water batn, 
stir it vigorously until the mass WCOg^ 
homogeneous, after which pour i ^ 
any convenient earthenware recep _ 

II.-Best glue, 4 ounces; good J^, 
gar, U pints; best gum arable, jS° g 
good black ink, } pint; best ^ u Vl; n k, 
drachms. Dissolve the gum in 
and melt the isinglass in an °., H- 
in as much hot water as Win C 
Having first steeped the glue W j b y 
gar until soft, dissolve it comp' 
the aid of heat, stirring to P ieve * A ISO 3 
ing. The heat should not excee ^ 
F. Add the gum and ink, an ^ 
the TniYtnr*i tn viso n.P-ain to I , , i ,v,nii l 



mixture to rise again to 
temperature. Lastly mix the s< 
isinglass, and remove from n re 



LEATHER 



451 



„sed a small portion must be heated 
until fluid, and then applied with a 
sponge and allowed to dry on. 

Dressings for Harness. — 

I- -Ox blood, fresh and 

well purified 100 parts 

Glycerine, technical. 20 parts 

Turpentine oil 30 parts 

Tine oil 50 parts 

Oxgall 20 parts 

Formalin H parts 

The raw materials are stirred together 
cold iu the order named. Pour the mix- 
ture through thin linen. It imparts a 
wonderful mild, permanent gloss^ 

IX. A French harness dressing^ of 

good" quality consists of oil of turpentine, 
900 parts; yellow wax, 90 parts; Berlin 
blue, 10 parts; indigo, 5 parts; and bone 
black, 50 parts. Dissolve the yellow 
wax in the oil of turpentine with the aid 
of moderate heat in a water bath, mix 
the remaining substances, which should 
previously be well pulverized, and work 
them with a small portion of the wax 
solution. Finally, add the rest of the 
wax solution, and mix the whole well m 
the water bath. When a homogeneous 
liquid has resulted, pour it into earthen 
receptacles. 

. Harness Oils. — 

I. — Neatsfootoil 10 ounces 

Oil of turpentine.. . . 2 ounces 

Petrolatum 4 ounces 

Lampblack jounce 

Mix the lampblack with the turpentine 

and the neatsfoot oil, melt the petrolatum 

and mix by shaking together. 

II. — Black aniline. ... 35 

Muriatic acid ... 50 

Bone black 175 

Lampblack IS 

Yellow wax 

Oil of turpentine 

III. — Oil of turpentine 

Yellow wax 

Prussian blue . . . 

Lampblack 

Melt the wax, add the turpentine, a 
portion first to the finely powdered Prus- 
sian blue and lampblack, and thin with 
neatsfoot oil. 

Harness Pastes. — 
I. — Ceresine, natural 

yellow 

Yellow beeswax .... 

Japan wax 1-5 parts 

Melt on the water bath, and when half 
cooled stir in 8 parts of turpentine oil. 
15 



grams 
minims 
grains 
grains 
2$ av. ounces 
22 fluid ounces 

8 fluidounces 
2 av. ounces 
it av. ounce 
J av. ounce 



1.5 parts 
1.5 parts 



Harness Grease. — 

II- — Ceresine, natural 

yellow 

Beeswax, yellow. . . . 
French colophony, 
pale 



By weight 

2.5 parts 
0.8 parts 

0.4 parts 
By weight 



III. — French oil turpen- 
tine 2.0 parts 

Intimately mixed in 
the cold with 
American lamp- 
black 1.5 parts 

Put mixture I in a kettle and melt over 
a fire. Remove from the fire and stir in 
mixture II in amah portions. Then 
pour through a fine sieve into, a second 
vessel, and continue pouring from one 
kettle into the other until the mass is 
rather thickish. Next fill in cans. 

Should the mixture have become too 
cold during the filling of the cans, the 
vessel containing the grease need only 
be placed in hot water, whereby the con- 
tents are rendered liquid again,^ so that 
pouring out is practicable. For per- 
fuming, use cinnamon oil as required. 

This harness grease is applied by 
means of a rag and brushed. 

Waterproof Harness Composition. - 
See also Waterproofing. 

By weight 

Rosin spirit 27£ parts 

Dark mineral oil. . 13* parts 
Paraffine scales. . . 16.380 parts 

Lampblack 7.940 parts 

Dark rosin 5.450 parts 

Dark syrup. .... - 5.450 parts 
Naphthalene black 2.500 parts 

Berlin blue 0.080 parts 

Mir bane oil 0.170 parts 

Melt the paraffine and the rosin, add 
the mineral oil and the rosin spirit, sta 
the syrup and the pigments into tins, 
and lastly add the mirbane oil. 
PATENT AND ENAMELED LEATHER, 
Patent leather for boots and shoes is 
„ r 5 Dare d from sealskins, enameled 
Feather for harness from heavy bullock 3 
hides The process of tannmg. is what 

is spht into t^ v X f r or en ameling in 
gram side * ™*™ e tops G f carriages; 
t&ZSX&K fiU P ed for sp.atter 



5« 



LEATHER 



board, and carnage 

ind other purR"*- The ta £ 
S e f^rhriSo"in y S tead of a bark 

fe. the splits ^^"1 SS 
are laid on » ^^^d dried, after 
stretched J^^ered on one ode 
which each one is cuvc to 

Sthe foH-^f h XCr n ?nat°it may 
close the pores o lh< ^™ f reCeiv ing 
present a ^^^^fpaU of raw lin- 
t he varmsh P hite ] e ad and 1 

seed oil put 1 part ary gtj 

part silver btharge ana thick 
Constantly until tKe coupon ^ 
enough to dry in lj f °J or china ) mto 

Seher may be mixed in the above com- 
pound while boiling, or afterwards, but 
Wore spreading it on the leather. 

The frames are then put into a rack m 
a drying closet, and the coated leather 
dried 7 by steam heat at 80° to 160° F., 
the heat being raised gradually. Alter 
removal from the drying closet, the 
grounding coat previously laid on is 
pumiced, to smooth out the surface, and 
then given 2 or 3 coats of the enameling 
varnish, which consists of Prussian blue 
and lampblack boiled with linseed oil 
and diluted with turpentine, so as to 
enable it to flow evenly over the surface 
of the coated leather. When spread on 
with a brush, each coating of the enamel 
is dried before applying the next, and 
pumiced or rubbed with tripoli powder 
on a piece of flannel (the coat last laid on 
is not subjected to this rubbing), when 
the leather is ready for market. 

To prepare the enameling composi- 
tion, boil 1 part asphaltum with 20 parts 
raw linseed oil until thoroughly com- 
bined; then add 10 parts thick copal 
varnish, and when this mixture is homo- 
geneous dilute with SO parts spirit of 
turpentine. 1 

vJ^t °/n the . fore g° in g enameling 
ISs foUowm « is ua ed for superior 

Prussian blue 18 ounces 

Vegetable black... ™ 
Raw linseed oil.... 1 60 Sounces 

^uire, Th ese ^rn g a %rS° e n s 



should be made and kept several weeks 
in the same room as the varnishing i a 
carried on, so that they are always sub- 
jected to the same temperature. 
STAINS FOR PATENT LEATHER; 
Black Stain. — 

Vinegar 1 gallon 

Ivory black. ........ 14 ounces 

Ground iron scales. . . 6 pounds 
Mix well and allow to stand a f e -w 
days. 

Red Stain. — Water, 1 quart; spirit of 
hartshorn, 1 quart; cochineal, \ pound. 
Heat the water to near the boiling point, 
and then dissolve in it the cochineal, 
afterwards adding the spirit of hartshorn. 
Stir well to incorporate. 

Liquid Cochineal Stain. — 

Good French carmine %\ drachms 

Solution of potash \ ounce 

Rectified spirit of wine 2 ounces 

Pure glycerine 4 ounces 

Distilled water to make 1 pint. 
To the carmine in a 20-ounce bottle 
add 14 ounces of distilled water. Then 
gradually introduce solution of potash, 
shaking now and again until dissolved. 
Add glycerine and spirit of wine, making 
up to 20 ounces with distilled water, and 
filter. 

Blue Black. — Ale droppings, 2 gallons; 
bruised galls, I pound; logwood extract, 
J pound; indigo extract, 2 ounces; sul- 
phate of iron, Si ounces. Heat together 
and strain. 

Finishers' Ink.— Soft water, 1 gallon; 
logwood extract, 11 ounces; green vitrioJ, 
2£ ounces; potassium bichromate, { 
ounce; gum arable, | ounce. 

Grind the gum and potassium bichro- 
mate to powder and then add all m 
coloring ingredients to the water and DOW. 

To Restore Patent Leather Dash.- 
Take raw linseed oil, 1 part; cider Jg 
gar, 4 ounces; alcohol, 2 ounces; 
of antimony, 1 ounce; aqua aBOT l 
i ounce; spirits of camphor, ? fher ; 
lavender, \ ounce. Shake well together, 
apply with a soft brush. 
PRESERVATIVES FOR LEATHER. 

I— Mutton suet 50 parts 

Sweet oil 50 P^JJ 

Turpentine P 



Melt together. . oD 

The application should be n in t 
the dry leather wanned to ji he {at. 
where it will liquefy and absorb u' ^ 
,H. — Ecjual parts of 
linseed oil, mixed with 



mutton 
one-ten 



LEATHER 



453 



jj t 0 f Venice turpentine, and melted 
together in an earthen pipkin, .will pro- 
rhfce a "dubbin" which is very efficacious 
in preserving leather when exposed to 
wet or snow, etc. The mixture should 
be appl ied when the leatlier 1S *3 ulte dr y 
and warm. . 

tjj A solution of 1 ounce of solid 

mraffine in 1 pint light naphtha to 
which 6 drops of sweet oil have been 
added is put cold on the soles, until they 
will absorb no more. One dressing will 
do for the uppers. This process is 
claimed to vastly increase the tensile 
strength. 
Patent Leather Preserver. — 

Carnauba wax 1-0 part 

Turpentine oil 9.5 parts 

Aniline black, soluble 

in fat 0.06 parts 

Melt the wax, stir in the turpentine oil 
and the dye and scent with a little mir- 
bane oil or lavender oil. The paste is 
rubbed out on the patent leather by means 
of a soft rag, and when dry should be 
polished with a soft brush. 

REVIVERS AND REGENERATORS. 

By weight. 

L— Methylic alcohol 22 £ parts 

Ground ruby shellac 2.250 parts 

Dark rosin 0.910 parts 

Gum rosin 0.115 parts 

Sandarae. 0.115 parts 

Lampblack ....... CU* 5 P arts 

Aniline black, spirit- 
soluble 0.115 parts 

The gums are dissolved in spirit and 
next the aniline black soluble in spirit is 
added; the lampblack is ground with a 
little liquid to a paste, which is added to 
the whole, and filtering follows. 

Kid Reviver. — 

By weight. 

II. — Clear chloride of lime 

solution 3.5 parts 

Spirit of sal ammo- 
niac . . . . : 0.5 parts 

Scraped Marseilles 

soap ■ 4.5 parts 

Water 6.0 parts 

Mix chloride of lime solution and 
spirit of sal ammoniac and stir in the 
soap dissolved in water. Revive the 
gloves with the pulpy mass obtained, by 
means of a flannel rag. 

TANNING LEATHER. 

Pickling Process. — Eitner and Stiazny 
have made a systematic series of experi- 
ments with mixtures of salt and vari- 
ous acids for pickling skins preparatory 



M^fc B: a Es P e "ment S with hydro- 
chloric add acetic and lactic acids 
showed that these offered no advantages 
over su phunc acid for use in picklin? 
the p lc kled pelts and the leatLr prfc 
duced from them being similar in Ap- 
pearance and quality. By varying the 
concentration of the pickle liquors, it was 
found that the amount of salt absorbed 
by the pelt from the pickle liquor was 
controlled by the concentration of the 
solution, 23 to 25 per cent of the total 
amount used being taken up by the pelt, 
and that the absorption capacity of the 
pelt for acid was limited. 

The goods pickled with the largest 
amount of acid possessed a more leathery 
feel and after drying were fuller and 
stretched much better than those in, 
which smaller amounts of acids were 
employed. Dried, pickled pieces, con- 
taining as much as 3 per cent of sulphuric 
acid, showed no deterioration or tender- 
ing of fiber. The pickled skins after 
chrome tanning still retained these 
characteristics. An analysis of the 
leather produced by tanning with sumac 
showed that no free acid was retained in 
the finished leather. An Australian 
pickled pelt was found to contain 19.5 
per cent of salt and 2.8 per cent of sul 
phuric acid. 

From a very large number of expen 
merits the following conclusions wer 
drawn: 1. That sulphuric acid is quit 
equal in efficiency to other acids for th 
purpose. 2. To a certain limit inereas 
ing softness is produced by increasing 
the quantity • of acid used. 3. *or 
naturally soft skins and when a leather 
not very soft is required the best result 
are obtained by using 22 pounds of salt, 
2.2 pounds of sulphuric acid, and 25 gal- 
lonsof water for 110 pounds of pe dt in th 
drum. 4. For material which is natural. 

salt, and water. 
French Hide Taantag . 

The P^f-^JZ in a solution o 
8 to 4 hours 'mmersioi ^ 

r0sin ,? < "'„ P ir The goodsare LWwards 



for 3 to 4 hours. 



tion 



J^/JeXweft'oUaiu fore hour. .» 



LEATHER 



,rder to soften them completely. 
vi« this will require a longer time 
n ± A heavy hide requires lo 



for salted. A heavy 
soaking than a skin 



I ba«b of * 

hydrochloric acid (1 to * rU 
which they ««uun for 8 hou rk 
the hides are washed » n it* eD tannage 

Wished in the usuf ^H of m 

consists of a special tQ 30 

ammonium suJphoncinoic , gim ;i ar 
^ cent) and sumac e tta^o 

from 4° to 30° or 40 l*e. 
TaDflfg Hides - Kobes -The h.des 

ih ould K™ r &.5°™.K^. For dry 

? than 
longer 

Thus it is impos- 
soakmg man a J." . . After 

Sib tn°/m a e hHe i Te'h^d cTean, and 
Tnol^XVo into the tan 1 
which is made up as follows: One part 
Sum 1 part 'salt; 1 to J part japonic*.. 
ThSe are dissolved in hot water ,r i suf- 
ficient quantity to make a 35 liquor. 
The hide, according to the thickness, is 
left in the tan from 5 to 10 days. Skins 
are finished in about 2 or 3 days The 
hide should be run in a drum for about/ 
hours before going into tan, and again 
after that process. In tanning hides ior 
robes, shaviug them down is a mam 
requisite for success, as it is impossible 
to get soft leather otherwise. After 
shaving put' back into the tan liquor 
again for a day or two and hang up to 
dry. When good and hard, shave again 
and lay away in moist sawdust and give a 
heavy coat of oil. When dry, apply a 
solution oE soft soap - , roll up and lay away 
in moist sawdust again. Ran the hides 
on a drum or wheel until thoroughly soft. 
The composition of the tan liquor may 
be changed considerably. If the brown- 
ish tinge of the japonica be objectionable, 
that article may be left out entirely. The 
japonica has the effect oE making the 
robe more able to resist water, as the 
alum and salt alone are readily soaked 
out by rain. 

Lace Leather.— Take cow hides aver- 
aging from 25 to 30 pounds each; 35 
Hides will make a convenient soak for a 

qk t , C T ta . ming K 000 £ allons of water, or 
25 hides to a soa k of 700 gallons. Soak 

™ST 8 ° r m oT: ™ retired. Change 
1 T Fy 94 h ° Urs - S P Ut and flest; 
resoak it necessary. When thoroughly 
soft put in hmes. H an dl e and strength 
en once a day, for 5 or 0 days Unfair 
and wash Bathe in hen ma y n S ure 
*ork out of drench, wash well, drain 4 



of 5 hours. Then process, using 4,5 
pounds Vtriol and 600 pounds of soft 
water to 700 gallons of water. I a re _ 
newing process for second or consecutive 
D acks, use 15 pounds vitriol and 200 
nounds salt, always keeping stock con- 
stantly in motion during time of proe _ 
essin". After processing, drain over 
night, then put in tan in agitated liquors, 
keeping the stock in motion during the 
whole time of tanning. Pack do w n over- 
night. Use 200 pounds dry leather to 
each mill in stuffing. 

For stuffing, use 3 gallons curriers' 
hard grease and 3 gallons American cod 
oil. Strike out from mill, on flesh. Set 
out on grain. Dry slowly. Trim and 
board, length and cross. _ The stock is 
then ready to cut. The time for soaking 
the hides may be reduced one-half by 
putting the stock into a rapidly revolving 
reel pit, with a good inflow of water, so 
that the dirty water washes over and runs 
off. After io hours in the soak, put the 
stock into a drum, and keep it tumbling 
5 hours. This produces soft stock. 

In liming, where the saving of the hair 
is no object, softer leather is obtainable 
by using 35 pounds sulphide of sodium 
with 60 pounds lime. Then, when the 
stock comes from the limes, the hair is 
dissolved and immediately washes off, 
and saves the labor of unhairing and 
caring for the hair, which in some cases 
does not pay. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES : 

Russian Leather— This leather owes, 
its name to the country of its origin. LM 
skins used for its production are goat, 
large sheep, calfskin, and cow or steer 
hide. The preliminary operations or 
soaking, unhairing, and fleshing are done 
in the usual manner, and then the hides 
are permitted to swell in a mixture <HJ|g 
flour, oat flour, yeast, and salt. - ^ 
compound is made into a P a f s ^ e 
water, and is then thinned with si 
cient water to steep a hundred hides _ 
the mixture. The proportions ot 11 a 
dients used for this mixture are ^ 
pounds rye flour, 10 pounds oat Dou > 
little salt, and sufficient yeast to set 
fermentation. . . _ nn i- 

The hides are steeped in 
pound for 2 days, until swelled up, ^ 
then put into a solution of wiu° j 
poplar barks, in which they are jjg 
to remain 8 days, being i ref l is 
turned about. The tanning, P r ° ; nt0 a 



then completed by putting theDO . 
tanning liquor composed of r E! a te 
willow barks, equal parts. I ,A e ji» 
steeped 8 days in this liquor, ana 



LEATHER 



455 



fresh liquor of the same ingredients and 
proportions is made up The hides are 
EarSened and split and then steeped in 
fhp freshly made liquor for another 8 
Savs when they are sufficiently tanned. 

The hides are then cut down the 
middle (from head to tail) into sides, and 
Sured rinsed, and dried by dripping, 
! n d then passed on to the currier who 
sightly dampens the dry sides and puts 
Sem m a heap or folds them together 
for a couple of days to temper, and then 
impregnates them with a compound con- 
Sne of ! parts birch oil and $ parts seal 
oi This is applied on the flesh side for 
lisiit leather, and on the grain side also 
for heavy leather. The leather is then 
"set out," "whitened," and well boarded 
and dried before dyeing. 

\ decoction of sandalwood, alone or 
mixed with cochineal, is used for pro- 
ducing the Russian red color, and this 
dye liquor is applied several times, 
allowing each application to dry before 
applying the following one. A brush is 
used and the dye liquor is spread on the 
grain side. A solution of tin chloride is 
used in Russia as a mordant for the 
leather before laying on the dye. The 
dye liquor is prepared by boiling 18 
ounces of sandalwood in 13 pints of 
water for 1 hour, and then filtering the 
liquid and dissolving in the filtering 
fluid 1 ounce of prepared tartar and 
soda, which is then given an hours 
boiling and set aside for a few days be- 
fore use. 

After dyeing, the leather is again im- 
pregnated with the mixture of birch and 
seal oils (applied to the grain side on a 
piece of flannel) and when the dyed 
leather has dried, a thin smear of gum- 
diagon mucilage is given to the dyed side 
to protect the color from fading, while 
the flesh side is smeared with bark-tan 
juice and the dyed leather then grained 
for market. 

Toughening Leather. — Leather_ is 
toughened and also rendered impervious 
by impregnating with a solution of 1 part 
of caoutchouc or gutta-percha in 16 parts 
of benzene or other solvent, to which is 
added 10 parts of linseed oil. Wax and 
rosin may be added to thicken the solu- 
tion. 

Painting on Leather.— When the leath- 
er is finished in the tanneries it is at the 
same time provided with the necessary 
greasy particles to give it the required 
pliancy and prevent it from cracking. 
It is claimed that some tanners strive to 
obtain a greater weight thereby, thus 
reasing their profit, since a pound ot 



fat is only one-eighth as dear as a pound 
of leather. 

If such leather, so called kips, which 
are much used for carriage covers and 
knee caps, is to be prepared for painting 
purposes, it is above all necessary to 
close up the pores of the leather, so that 
the said fat particles cannot strike 
through. They would combine with 
the applied paint and prevent the latter 
from drying, as the grease consists main- 
ly of fish oil. For this reason an elastic 
spirit leather varnish is employed, which 
protects the succeeding paint coat suffi- 
ciently from the fat. 

For further treatment take a goo 
coach varnish to which \ of stand o' 
(linseed oil which has thickened b; 
standing) has been added and allow th 
mixture to stand for a few days. Wi 
this varnish grind the desired color 
thinning them only with turpentine oi 
Put on 2 coats. In this manner th 
most delicate colors may be applied t 
the leather, only it is needful to put o 
pale and delicate shades several time 
In some countries the legs or tops o 
boots are painted yellow, red, green, 
blue in this manner. Inferior leathe 
such as sheepskin and goat leath 
which is treated with alum by the tanne 
may likewise be provided with color in 
the manner stated. Subsequently it can 
be painted, gilded, or bronzed. 

Stains for Oak Leather .—I.— Apply 
an intimate mixture of 4 ounces of umber 
(burnt or raw); £ ounce of lampblack, 
and 17 fluidounces ox gall. 

II The moistened leather is primed 

with a solution of 1 part, by weight oi 
copper acetate in 60 parts of wa«* 
slicked out and then painted with solu- 
tion of yellow prussiate potash in feebly 
acid water. 

LEATHER PLASTIC (Shoe Re- 
soler) : 

(A Putty-like Substance to Resole 
Shoes). — 

An ™,t,™.<! . . In° ia Rubber 

40 ounceS (small sheets) 

ft nnnces . ■ ■ Powdered Rosin 

I °™*f s Liquid Shellac 

IS I ■ Powdered Leather 

"founds Carbon Bisulphide 

r.it rubber in small pieces and dissolve 

tathe powSred leather until you have a 
fairly thick paste. 




LEMONS — LETTERING 



LEATHER VARNISH: 

g ee Varnish. 
LEATHER WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing- 

preservation of ^/^^"eat- 
fogrtmtha ume etg al j 



The juice 



filled 



w o"olen~cloth and put into bottles. 



irjir:^ T conS with the liquid. 
Seal at once and keep in a cool place 
The oottlef should be asepticW with 
boiling water just before using. 



LEMON EXTRACT (ADULTERATED) 
TESTS FOR: 
See Foods. 
LEMON SHERBET POWDER: 

See Salts, Effervescent. 

LEMONADES, LEMONADE POWDERS, 
AND LEMONADE DROPS: 

See Beverages. 

LEMONADE POWDER: 

See Salts, Effervescent. 

LENSES AND THEIR CARE: 

Unclean Lenses (see also Cleaning Prep- 
arations and Methods). — If in either ob- 
jective or eyepiece the lenses are not 
clean, the definition may be seriously im- 

E aired or destroyed. Uncleanlmess may 
e due to finger marks upon the front lens 
of the objective, or upon the eyepiece 
lenses; dust which in time may settle upon 
the rear lens of the objective or on the 
eye lens; a film which forms upon one or 
the other lens, due occasionally to the fact 
that glass is hygroscopic, but generally 
tothe exhalation from the interior finish 
ot the mountings, and, in immersion ob- 
jectives, because the front lens is not 
properly cleaned; or oil that has leaked 
on to its rear surface, or air bubbles that 
have formed in the oil between the cover 
glass and front lens. 



lo^W^^ 6 ^ a11 le *se S 
lously clean. F or c i ea 



Linng, 



scrupu- 
use well- 



breathe P upo n t h7f^i a the , obse ^ation ; 

p tae leil ses, and wipe gently 



with a circular motion and blow off arj y 
particles which may adhere. 

Dry Objectives. — Clean the front lens 
as described. To examine the rear and in- 
terior lenses use a 2-inch magnifier, look- 
ing through the rear. > Remove the dust 
from the rear lens with a camel' s-hair 
brush. 

Oil Immersion Objectives. — Invariably 
clean the front lens after use with moist- 
ened linen or paper, and wipe dry. 

In applying oil examine the front of 
the objective with a magnifier, and if there 
are any air bubbles, remove them with a 
pointed quill, or remove the ail entirely 
and apply a fresh quantity. 



LETTERS, TO REMOVE FROM CHINA S 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, under Miscellaneous Methods. 

LETTER-HEAD SENSITIZERS: 

See Photography, under Paper-Sensi- 
tizing Processes. 

Lettering 

CEMENTS FOR ATTACHING- LETTERS 
ON GLASS: 

See Adhesives, under Sign-Letter Ce- 
ments, 

Gold Lettering. — This is usually done 
by first drawing the lettering, then cover- 
ing with an adhesive mixture, such as size, 
and finally applying gold bronze powder 
or real gold leaf. A good method for 
amateurs to follow in marking letters on 
glass is to apply first a coat of whiting, 
mixed simply with water, and then to 
mark out the letters on this surface^ 
using a pointed stick or the like. Alter 
this has been done the letters may easily 
be painted or gilded on the reverse s»de£l 
the glass. When done, wash off tue 
whiting from the other side, and the worn 
is complete. 

Bronze Lettering.— The f°"^ in fj 
the best method for card work: Write v 
asplialtum thinned with turpentine umg 
it flows easilj'-, and, when nearly ^^en 
bronze powder over the letters, vvn 
the letters are perfectlv dry tap 
*o take off the extra bronze, and 
leave the letters clean and sharp. , 
letters should be made with a f^J* 
hair brush and not with the a ut0 *"? aC . 
pen, as oil paints do not work saO" 
torily with these pens. . , pe n, 

For bronzed letters made with tn ^ or . 
use black letterine or any water t 



LETTERING 



457 



Tf a water color is used add considerable 
inm arable. Each letter should be 
Bronzed as it is made, as the water color 
dries much more quickly than the as- 

^Another method is to mix the bronze 
nowder with bronze sizing to about the 
insistency of the asphaltum. Make the 
letter with a camel's-hair brush, using the 
bronze paint as one would any oil paint. 

This method requires much skill, as 
the eold paint spreads quickly and is apt 
to flood over the edge of the letter. For 
use. on oilcloth this is the most practical 

method. , 

Bronzes may be purchased at any 
hardware store. They are made in 
copper, red, green, silver, gold, and cop- 
per shades. 

Lettering on Glass. — White lettering 
on glass and mirrors produces a rich 
effect. Dry zinc, chemically pure, should 
be used. It can be obtained jn any first- 
class paint store and is inexpensive. To 
every teaspoonful of zinc, 10 drops of 
mucilage should be added. The two 
should be worked up into a thick paste, 
water being gradually added until the 
mixture is about the consistency of thick 
cream. The paint should then be ap- 
plied with a camel's-hair brush. 

Another useful paint for this purpose 
is Chemnitz white. If this distemper 
color is obtained in a jar, care should be 
exercised to keep water standing above 
the color to prevent drying. By using 
mucilage as a sizing these colors will ad- 
here to the glass until it is washed off. 
Both mixtures are equally desirable for 
lettering on block card-board. 

Any distemper color may be employed 
on glass without in any way injuring it. 
An attractive combination is — first to 
letter the sign with Turkey red, and then 
to outline the letters with a very narrow 
white stripe. The letter can be ren- 
dered still more attractive by shading one 
side in black. 

Signs on Show Cases. — Most show 
cases have mirrors at the back, either m 
the form of sliding panels or spring 
doors. Lettering in distemper colors 
on these mirrors can easily be read 
through the fronts or tops of cases. If 
the mirror is on a sliding panel, it will 
be necessary to detach it from the case 
in order to letter it. When the mirror 
is on a spring door the sign can be let- 
tered with less trouble. 

By tracing letters in chalk on the out- 
side of the glass, and then painting 
them on the inside, attractive signs can 
roduced on all show cases ; but paint- 



ing letters on the inside of a show case 
glass is more or less difficult, and it is 
not advisable to attemptit in very shallow 
cases. 

"Spatter" Work. — Some lettering 
which appears very difficult to the unin- 
itiated is, in fact, easily produced. The 
beautiful effect of lettering and orna- 
mentation in the form of foliage or con- 
ventional scrolls in a speckled ground is 
simple and can be produced with little 
effort. Pressed leaves and letters or 
designs cut from newspapers or maga- 
zines may be tacked or pasted on card- 
board or a mat with flour paste. As 
little paste as possible should be used — 
only enough to hold the design in place. 
When all the designs are in the positions 
desired, a toothbrush should be dippec 
in the ink or paint to be employed. A 
toothpick or other small piece of wooc 
is drawn to and fro over the bristles, 
which are held toward the sign, the ei 
tire surface of which should be spat 
tered or sprinkled with the color. Whei 
the color is dry the designs pasted 01 
should be carefully removed and thf 
paste which held them in place should be 
scraped off. This leaves the letters and 
other designs clean cut and white agains 
the "spatter" background. The begin 
ner should experiment first with a fe\ 
simple designs. After he is able to pro- 
duce attractive work with a few figure 
or letters he may confidently undertal 
more elaborate combinations. 

Lettering on Mirrors.— From a bar o; 
fresh common brown soap cut off a one 
inch-wide strip across its end. Cut tnis 
into S or 3 strips. Take one strip and 
with a table-knife cut from two opposite 
Tides a wedge-shaped point resembling 

tnat of a shading P«. b «\^,^ C ?K 
to be fully i inch thick. Clean tne 
mir?or thorough^ and P^eeed to letter 
in exactly the same manner as with a 
shading pen. 

To Fill Engraved Letters on Metal 

'SeSSls to A dried .he 



plate may be po" 8 ^. d _ sired> make _ 
Fill the linearly level w« 



LICORICE — LIMB 



458 

of flake white m^a & ^ whlte 
^hrltd'ttU* tinted to 
ground ia japan- 

on GIas 5 .-This is ^^Pieavmg the 
groundwork with any coi , d p i ace 
fetter or figure naked W*£ colored 
tin foil or any of ■ ™ ™ OJ1 the back 
copper foils over tje ^ l^ in the 

them out. 

tICE KILLERS: 

See Insecticides. 

LICHEN REMOVERS: 

Spp Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
od! underMrscella P neous Methods and 
Household Formulas. 

LICORICE: . 

Stable Solutions of Licorice Juice.— 
A. percolator, with alternate layers jof 
broLn glass, which have been well 
washed, first with hydrochloric acid and 
plentifully rinsed with distilled water, is 
the first requisite. This is charged with 
pieces of crude licorice juice, from the 
size of a hazel nut to that of a walnut, 
•which are weighted down with well- 
washed pebbles. The percolate is kept 
for 3 days in well corked flasks which 
have been rinsed out with alcohol be- 
forehand. Decant and filter and evap- 
orate down rapidly, under constant 
stirring, or in vacuo. The extract 
Bhould be kept in vessels first washed 
with alcohol and closed with parchment 
paper, in a dry place — never in the 
cellar. 

To dissolve this extract, use water, 
first boiled for 15 minutes. The solu- 
tion should be kept in small flasks, first 
rinsed with alcohol and well corked. If 
to be kept for a long time, the flasks 
should be subjected for 3 consecutive 
days, a half hour each day, to a stream of 
steam, and the corks paraffined. 

There is frequently met with in com- 
merce a purified juice that remains clear 
m the mxxtura solvens. It is usually 
obtained by supersaturation with pure 
ammonia, allowing to stand for 3 days, 
decanting, filtering the decanted liquor 
and qmefc evaporation. Since solutions 
with water done rapidly spoil, it is well 

commn.T ^ ^ m the Precautions 
common for narcotic extracts. 



To Test Extract of Licorice. — Mere 
solubility is no test for the purity of 
extract of licorice. It is, theretore, p ro , 
posed to make the glycyrrhizm content 
and the nature of the ash the determining 
test To determine^ the glyeyrrhizhi 



gl 

Quantitatively proceed as follows: Mac- 
erate t\j ounce ot the extract, in coarse 
powder, in 10 fluidounces distilled water 
for several hours, with more or less f re- 
el uent agitation. When solution is com- 
plete add 10 fluidounces alcohol 0 f 90 
per cent, filter and wash the filter with 
alcohol of 40 per cent until the latter 
comes off colorless. Drive off the alco- 
hol which was added merely to facilitate 
filtration, by evaporation in the water 
bath; let the residue cool down and pre- 
cipitate the glycyrrhizin by addiLion of 
sulphuric acid. Filter the liquid and 
wash the precipitate on the filter with 
distilled water until the wash water comes 
off neutral. Dissolve the glycyrrhizin 
from the filter by the addition of ammonia 
water, drop by drop, collecting the fil- 
tered solution in a tared capsule. Evap- 
orate in the water bath, dry the residual 
glvcyrrhmn at 212° F., and weigh. Re- 
peated examinations of known pure ex- 
tracts have yielded a range of percentage 
of odycyrrhizin running from 8.06 per 
cent to '11.90 per cent. The ash should 
be acid in reaction and a total percentage 
of from 5.64 to 8.64 of the extract. 



LIGHT, INACTINIC: 

See Photography. 

LIGNALOE SOAP: 

See Soap. 

LIMEADE: _ , a 

See Beverages, under Lemonades. 

LIME AS A FERTILIZER: 
See Fertilizers. 

LIME, BIRD. . j 

Bird lime is a thick, soft, tough an 



sticky mass of a greenisii - 
unpleasant smell and bitter taStc ,' eX „ 
easily on heating, and hardens »fl 
posed in thin layers to the air. ^ 
ficult to dissolve in alcoho k 1 ," n€n tine, 
soluble in hot alcohol, oil ot T m £ De gar. 
fat oils, and also somewhat m ^ 
The best quality is prepare dijv ^ 
inner green bark of the holl} I , j*^ 
folium), which is boiled, then puw ^ 
rcls, and submitted for 14 days 1 
fermentation until it becomes ^ 
Another process of preparing W j gt i e toS 
the boiled bark with juice ot ' j uoU l 
berries and burying it in the gr 



ish color, has £ 
ite, ff^ 
when 



LINIMENTS— LINSEED OIL 



459 



fermented. The bark is then pulverized, 
{foiled and washed. Artificial bird lime 
i, Prepared by boiling and then igniting 
linseed oil, or boiling printing varni.sh 
until it is very tough and sticky. It is 
Jlso prepared by dissolving cabinet- 
makers' glue in water and adding a con- 
centrated solution of chloride ot zinc. 
The mixture is very sticky, does not dry 
on exposure to the air, and has the ad- 
vantage that it can be easily washed off 
the feathers of the birds. 

LIME JUICE: 

See Essences and Jirxtracts 

LIME-JUICE CORDIAL : 

See Wines and Liquors. 

LIME WAFERS: 

See Confectionery. 

LINEN, TO DISTINGUISH COTTON 
FROM: 

See Cotton- 

LINEN DRESSING: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

LINIMENTS: 

See also Ointments. 

For external use only. — I. — The fol- 
lowing penetrating oily liniment reduces 
all kinds of inflammatory processes; 

Paraffine oil 4 ounces 

Capsicum powder. . .. h ounce 
Digest on a sand bath and filter. To 
this may be added directly the following: 
Oil of wintergreen or peppermint, phenol, 
thymol, camphor or eucalyptol, etc. 

II.— Camphor 2 ounces 

Menthol 1 ounce 

Oil of thyme.. 1 ounce 

Oil of sassafras 1 ounce 

Tincture of myrrh . . 1 ounce 
Tincture of capsicum 1 ounce 

Chloroform 1 ounce 

Alcohol 2 pints 

LINIMENTS FOR HORSES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

LINOLEUM: 
See also Oilcloth. 

Composition, for Linoleum, Oilcloth, 
etc. — This is composed of whiting, dried 
linseed oil, and any ordinary dryer, such 
as litharge, to which ingredients a pro- 
portion of gum tragacanth is to be added, 
replacing a part of the oil and serving to 
impart flexibility to the fabric, and to the 
composition in a pasty mass the property 
of drying more rapidly. In the pro- 
duction of linoleum, the whiting is, re- 
placed in whole or in part by pulverized 
nork. The proportions are approximate- 



ly the following by weight: Whiting or 
powdered eork, 13 parts; gum traga- 
canth, 5 parts; dried lmseed oil, 5£ parts; 
siccative, £ part. 

Dressings for Linoleum. — A weak so- 



„ — ... ^v.^,r«. A m spirits or Turpentine 
has been recommended for brightening 
the appearance of linoleum. Here are 
some other formulas: 



I. — Palm oil 1 ounce 

Paraffine 18 ounces 

Kerosene 4 ounces 

Melt the paraffine and oil, remove fro 
the fire and incorporate the kerosene. 

II. — Yellow wax 5 ounces 

Oil turpentine 11 ounces 

Amber varnish 5 ounces 

Melt the wax, add the oil, and then th 
varnish. Apply with a rag. 

Treatment of Newly Laid Linoletrm.- 
The proper way to cleanse a lincleu 
flooring is first to sweep off the dust and 
then wipe up with a damp cloth. Several 
times a year the surface should be well 
rubbed with floor wax. Care must be 
had that the mass is well pulverized and 
free from grit. Granite linoleum and 
figured coverings are cleansed without 
the application of water. A floor cover- 
ing which has been treated from the 
beginning with floor wax need only be 
wiped off daily with a dry cloth, either 
woolen or felt, and afterwards rubbed 
well with a cloth filled with the mass. 
It will improve its appearance, too, it it 
be washed several times a year witn 
warm water and a neutral soap. 

LINOLEUM, CLEANING AND POLISH- 
ING: 

See Household Formulas. 
LINOLEUM ON IRON STAIRS OR 
CEMENT FLOORS TO GLUE. 

See Adhesives, under Glues. 
LINSEED OIL: 

iLctogof Linseed Oil and Poppy- 
;e ed OU^fn order to U««J 



man ganate, 50 Parts, i - ^ & warm 

water; let stand for ** * . h ?5 ts 

temperature andj e^m ^^^ ^ 

of PUlvenzed sodiu ^ Bolve6 an d 

shake until the latter hloric acJ d, 



LINSEED OU.-LtJBRICAOTS 



u^n finely distributed, until 
U^uEf , Kaally filter over 
Seined Glauber's soil. _ 

.qual parts of the linsc *a , and 

tc id mto a flask, sftaive ^ 

black, the lat er pale or J to 
rellow, according to the acinus. 

hC T °he addition of rosin oil to linked 

amnS of unsapomfiable oil left alter 
boiling with caustic soda. 
LIQUID OR COLD SOLDER: 

These liquid solders consist merely of 
a quick drying lacquer to which has been 
added aluminum bronzing powder to give 
it the appearance of metal. The basis of 
such products have a variation of the 
following — 

1 ounce butyl acetate 

7 ounces ethyl and methyl acetate 
(7 ounces of each) 

8 ounces benzol 

3 ounces methyl alcohol 
4% ounces toluol 
% ounce gum ester 

2 ounces pyroxyline 

4 to fi ounces metal bronzing powder 
'lace all solids except bronzing powder 
an airtight vessel and all the liquids 

are dissolved. 
; solution 
all solids 



c an Milium except, uronzing powaer 
. airtight vessel and all the liquids 
and shake well until all are dissolved. 
Keep stopped at all times as the solution 
volatilizes very quickly. After all solids 



are dissolved add the bronzing powder 
and mix well to distribute the powder 
uniformly over the entire mass. 



axe dissolved add the bronz 
QTw1 - distribute 

entire mass, 

LOCUST KILLER: 

See Insecticides. 
LOUSE WASH: 
See Insecticides. 



Lubricants 

oil DPon?' £ i i - else P ure white-bone 
purKe S L?^ 18 ^oyed for this 
only free frn™ the iV WO 6115 are not 
or i£3y m aCld ' but do ™* oxidize 



Leather Lubricants, —Russian tallow 
1 nound; beeswax, 6 ounces; black pitch' 
4 ounces; common castor oil, 3 pounds: 
soft paraffine, \ pound; oil of citronell a 
i 0 unce. Melt all together in a saucepan 
except the citronella, which add on cooll 
ing. Stir occasionally. 

Machinery Oils.— L— The solid fat, 
called bakourine, a heavy lubricant which 
possesses extraordinary lubricating quan- 
tities has a neutral reaction and melts 
only 'at about 176° to 188° P. It is pre- 
pared as follows: 

A mixture is made of 100 parts of 
Bienne petroleum or crude naphtha, 
with 25 parts of castor oil or some min- 
eral oil, and subjected to the action of 60 
or 70 parts of sulphuric acid of 66° Be. 
The acid is poured in a small stream into 
the oil, while carefully stirring. The 
agitation is continued until a thick and 
blackish-brown mass is obtained free 
from non-incorporated petroleum. "Very 
cold water of 2 or 3 times the weight of 
the mass is then added, and the whole is 
stirred until the mass turns white and 
becomes homogeneous. It is left at 
rest for 24 hours, after which the watery 
liquid, on the surface of which the fat is 
floating, must be poured off. After 
resting again from 3 to 4 days, the prod- 
uct is drawn off, carefully neutralized 
with caustic potash, and placed in bar- 
rels ready for shipping. 

II.— Melt in a kettle holding 2 to 4 
times as much as the volume of the mass 
which is to be boiled therein, 10 parts, 
by weight, of tallow in 20 parts of rape 
oil on a moderate fire; add 10 parts of 
freshly and well burnt lime, slaked in 
30 or 40 parts of water; increase the hre 
somewhat, and boil with constant stirring 
until a thick froth forms and the mass 
sticks to the bottom of the kettle. Uurn- 
ing should be prevented by diligent stir- 
ring. Then add in portions of 10 P art T 
each, gradually, 70 parts of rape oil *Bffl 
boil with a moderate fire, until the Jituj 
lumps gradually forming na ^}-, j^this 
to a whole uniform mass. , ui e to 
operation it is of importance to be afj 
regulate the fire quickly. SaroP ilLved 
now continually taken, which are all \ ^ 
to cool quickly on glass plates- 
boiling down must not be carried s . 
that the samples harden on c0 ^<| 



they must "spin longT fine threads 
torched with the finger. >\ hen . 



this 



-V i-.H^U WILli LUC Llll^V.L . gun- 

point is reached add, with const au g ^ 
ring, when the heat has ^ le „ ~ r ing 
ciently (which may be tested by P r{5 
in a few drops of water), 25 to ^ it l boU t 
of water. Now raise the fire, w 



^oci'nf* to stir, until the mass comes to a 

S3SEw«« boiL \ n ord i\ to ? e r ble 

to act quickly in case of a sudden boiling 
the fire must be such that it can be 
removed quickly, and a little cold water 
Sust always be kept on hand. Next, 
gradually add in small portions, so as 
f n t to disturb the boiling of the mass, 
500 parts of paraffine oil (if very thick, 
S00 to 900 parts may be added), remove 
from the fire, allow the contents of the 
kettle to clarify, and skim off the warm 
rrrease from the sediment into a stirring 
apparatus. Agitate until the mass be- 
ams to thicken and cool; if the grease 
should still be too solid, stir in a little 
paraffine oil the second time. The odor 
of the paraffine oil may be disguised by 
the admixture of a little mirbane oil. 

For Cutting Tools.— The proportion 
of ingredients of a lubricating mixture 
for cutting tools is 6 gallons of water, 3| 
pounds of soft soap, and % gallon of 
clean refuse oil. Heat the water and mix 
with the soap, preferably in a mechan- 
ical mixer; afterwards add the oil. A 
cast-iron circular tank to hold 12 gallons, 
fitted with a tap at the bottom and hav- 
ing three revolving arms fitted to a ver- 
tical shaft driven by bevels and a fast 
and loose pulley, answers all requirements 
for a mixer. This should be kept run- 
ning all through the working day. 

For Highspeed Bearings.— To prevent 
heating and sticking of bearings on 
heavy machine tools due to running con- 
tinuously at high speeds, take about \ 
of flake graphite, and the remainder 
kerosene oil. As soon as the bearing 
shows the slightest indication of heat- 
ing or sticking, this mixture should be 
forcibly squirted through the oil hole 
until it flows out between the shaft and 
bearing, when a small quantity of thin 
machine oil may be applied. 

For Heavy Bearings. — An excellent 
lubricant for heavy bearings can be made 
from either of the following recipes: 

I.— Paraffine 6 pounds 

Palm oil.. . . 12 pounds 

Oleonaphtha 8 pounds 

II.— Paraffine 8 pounds 

Palm oil 20 pounds 

Oleonaphtha 12 pounds 

The oleonaphtha should have a den- 
sity of 0.9. First dissolve the paraffine 
in the oleonaphtha at a temperature of 
about 158° F. Then gradually stir m 
the palm oil a little at a time. The pro- 
portions will show that No, II £ V( ! s , a 
less liquid product than No. I. Quicic- 



For L atlle Centers—An excellent 
lubricant for lathe centers is made bv 
using 1 part graphite and 4 parts tallow 
thoroughly mixed. 

Sewing Machine Oil. — I , — Petroleum 
oils are better adapted for the lubrication 
of sewing machines than any of the animal 
oils. < Sperm oil has for a long time bee 
considered the standard oil for this pur 
pose, but it is really not well adapted t 
the conditions to which a sewing machin 
is subjected. If the machine were oper 
ated constantly or regularly every da 
probably sperm oil could not be im 
proved on. The difficulty is, howeve 
that a family sewing machine will fr 
quently be allowed to stand untouche 
for weeks at a time and will then be e 
pected to run as smoothly as though just 
oiled. Under this kind of treatment 
almost any oil other than petroleum oil 
will become gummy. What is known in 
the trade as a "neutral" oil, of high 
viscosity, would probably answer better 
for this purpose than anything else. A 
mixture of 1 part of petrolatum and 7 
parts of paraffine oil has also been rec- 
ommended. 

II. — Pale oil of almonds. 9 ounces 
Rectified benzoline.. 3 ounces 
Foreign oil of laven- 
der 1 ounce 

PETROLEUM JELLIES AND 
SOLIDIFIED LUBRICANTS. 

Petroleum jelly and petrolatum are 
different names for the same thing. 

The pure qualities are made from 
American stock thickened with hot air 
until the desired melting pom is at- 
tained Three colors are made: white, 
yXw and black of various quah ies 
Cheaper qualities are made by . us ng 
ceresine wax in conjunction with tne 
genuine article and P a le minera I ml. 
This is the German method and is ap 

^• q ^«"oU* and ceresine wax. 

I.-Ycllow ceresine wax 11 parts 
White ceresine wax. 6 parts 
African mineral ^ 

Oil, Jiff , , . ., rp rt 

Melt «- "Sf Jf tSe^Se »S 
K'StaJ Tuse an'Hn* 6yes soluble » od 
toMy shade re^ed. 

tt Ceresine wax. . ■ v 



LUBRICANTS 



vr it *h* wax and add the oil, varying 
M i-t S * the consistency required, 
according t o me ds , 

S° c kto SO gallons oil. >ny was will 
So! according" to quality of product de- 
aired. 

White Petroleum Jelly.— 
White tasteless oil - ■ 
White ceresine wax. 



4 parts 
1 part 



2 parts 



1 part 

120 parts 
5 parts 
£part 



Solidified Lubricants.— 
I —Refined cotton oil. . ■ 
American mineral 

oil.&ftt 2partS 

Oleate of alumina 

Gently heat together. 
II.— Petroleum jelly. . - 

Ceresine wax 

Slaked lime 

Water 4 J parts 

Heat the wax and the petroleum jelly 
gently until liquid; then mix together the 
water and lime. Decant the former into 
packing receptacles, and add lime and 
water, stirring until it sets. For cheaper 
qualities use cream cylinder oil instead 
of petroleum jelly. 

WAGON AND AXLE GREASES: 

For Axles of Heavy Vehicles. — I. — 
Tallow (free from acid), 19£ parts; palm 
oil, 14 parts; sal soda, 5 A parts; water, 
3 par.ts, by weight. Dissolve the soda in 
the water and separately melt the tallow, 
then stir in the palm oil. This may be 
gently warmed before adding, as it 
greatly facilitates its incorporation with 
the tallow, unless the latter be made 
boiling hot, when it readily melts the 
semi-solid palm oil. When these two 
greases are thoroughly incorporated, 
pour the mixture slowly into the cold lye 
(or soda solution), and stir well until the 
mass is homogeneous. This lubricant 
can be made less solid by decreasing the 
tallow or increasing the palm oil. 
■ "Slaked lime (in powder), 8 parts, 
u slowly sifted into rosin oil, 10 parts. 
Stir it continuously to incorporate it 
thoroughly, and gently beat the mixture 

3 ,; t, sy , rupy ' consistency. Color 
JJitn lampblack or a solution of turmeric 

bW !l g a ° lution ^ ^1 soda. For 

thtl 11 V part of slak ed lime and 
S S^Ei*? C00l V The supernatant 
ter anT/ «° m the Palpitated mat- 



fine black lead; melt the fat in a var, 
nished earthen vessel; add the black lead 
while constantly stirring until it is cold 
for otherwise the black lead, on account 
of its density, would not remain in SUs . 
pension in the melted fat. Axles lubri- 
cated with this mixture can make SO 
miles without the necessity of renewing 
the grease. 

II — Mix equal parts of red American 
rosin, melted tallow, linseed oil, and 
caustic soda lye (of 1.5 density). 

III. — Melt 20 parts of rosin oil in 50 
parts of yellow palm oil, saponify this 
with 25 parts of caustic soda lye of 15° 
Be., and add 25 parts of mineral oil or 
parafHne. 

IV. — Mix residue of the distillation of 
petroleum, 60 to 80 parts; tallow, 10 
parts; colophony, 10 parts; and caustic 
soda solution of 40° Be., 15 parts. 

A Grease for Locomotive Axles. — Sa- 
ponify a mixture of 50 parts tallow, 98 
parts palm oil, 2 parts sperm oil. Mix 
in soda lye made Toy dissolving 12 parts 
of soda in 137 parts of water. 

MISCELLANEOUS LUBRICANTS: 

For Cotton Belts. — Carefully melt over 
a slow fire in a closed iron or self-regu- 
lating boiler 250 parts of caoutchouc or 
gum elastic, cut up in small pieces; then 
add 200 parts of colophony; when the 
whole is well melted and mixed, incor- 
porate, while carefully stirring, 200 parts 
of yellow wax. Then heat 850 parts of 
train oil, mixing with it 250 parts of talc, 
and unite the two preparations, con- 
stantly stirring, until completely cold. 

Chloriding Mineral Lubricating Oils.— 
A process has been introduced for pro- 
ducing industrial vaselines and mineral 
oils for lubrication, based on the treat- 
ment of naphthas, petroleums, and simi- 
lar hydrocarbides, by means of chlorine 
or mixtures of chlorides and hypocb oi- 
ides, known under the name of decolor- 
ing chlorides. Mix and stir thorough 
1,000 parts of naphtha of about W* 
density; 55 parts of chloride of 
and 500 parts of water. Decant anu 
wash, 

Glass Stop Cock Lubricant.— (See also 
Stoppers) . 

Pure rubber 14 P* vts 

Spermaceti 5 P ar : 

Petroleum 1 P art c j 

Melt the rubber in a covered 
and then stir in the other ingreo j 
A little more petroleum will be reqjj 
when the compound is for winter us- 



LUBRICANTS 



463 



TTard Metal Drilling Lubricant.— For 

JrlnW in hard metal 11 is recommended 
f ise carbolic acid instead of another 
Sttv substance as a lubricant since the 
i bv decreasing the friction, dimin- 

! 1 es the ''biting" of the drill, whereas 
the carbolic acid has an etching action. 

Plaster Model Lubricant. — Take lin- 
seed oil, 1,000 parts; calcined lead, 50 
rnrts- litharge, 60 parts; umber, 30 parts; 
tile 25 Parts. Boil for 2 hours on a mod- 
erate'fire; skim frequently and keep m 
well-closed flasks. 

Graphite Lubricating Compound.—- 
Graphite mixed with tallow gives a good 
lubricating compound that, is free irom 
any oxidizing if the taliow be rendered 
free from rancidity. The proportions 
are- Plumbago, 1 part; tallow, 4 parts. 
The plumbago being stirred into the 
melted tallow and incorporated by pass- 
ing it through a mixing mill, add a few 
pounds per hundredweight of camphor 
in powder to the hot compound. 

Lubricants for Redrawing Shells.— 
Zinc shells should be clean and free from 
all grit and should be immersed in boil- 
ing hot soap water. They must be re- 
drawn while hot to get the best results. 
On some shells hot oil is used in prefer- 
ence to soap water. 

For redrawing aluminum shells use a 
cheap grade of vaseline. It may not be 
amiss to add that the draw part of the 
redrawing die should not be made too 
long, so as to prevent too much friction, 
which causes the shells to split and shrivel 
up. 

For redrawing copper shells use good 
thick soap water as a lubricant. The 
soap used should be of a kind that will 
produce plenty of "slip." If none such 
is to be had, mix a quantity of lard oil 
with the soap water on hand and boil the 
two together. Sprinkling graphite over 
the shells just before redrawing some- 
times helps out on a mean job. 

Rope Grease. — For hemp ropes, fuse 
together 90 pounds of tallow and 30 
pounds of linseed oil. Then add 20 
pounds of parafEnc, 30 pounds of vase- 
line, and 60 pounds of rosin. Finally mix 
with 10 pounds of graphite, first rubbed 
up with 50 pounds of boiled oil. For 
wire ropes fuse 100 pounds of suint with 
20 pounds of dark colophony (rosm). 
Then stir in 30 pounds of rosin oil and 
10 pounds of dark petroleum. 

Sheet Metal Lubricant. —Mix 1 quart 
of whale oil, 1 pound of white lead, 1 pint 
of water, and 3 ounces of the finest 



graphite. This is applied to the metal 
with a brush before it enters the dies. 

Steam Cylinder Lubricant.— To ob- 
tain a very viscous oil that does not de- 
compose in the presence of steam even at 
a high temperature, it is necessary to ex- 
pose neutral wool fats, that have been 
freed from wool-fatty acids, such as crude 
lanolin or wool wax, either quite alone 
or in combination with mineral oils, to a 
high heat. This is best accomplished in 
the presence of ordinary steam or super- 
heated steam at a heat of 572° F., and a 
pressure of 50 atmospheres, correspond- 
ing with the conditions in the cylinder in 
which it is to be used. Instead of sepa- 
rating any slight quantities of acid that 
may arise, they may be dissolved out as 
neutral salts. 

Wooden Gears. — An excellent lubri- 
cating agent for wooden_ gears consists 
of talTow, 30 parts (by weight); palm oil, 
20 parts; fish oil, 10 parts; and graphite, 
20 parts. The fats are melted at mod- 
erate heat, and the finely powdered and 
washed graphite mixed with them inti- 
mately by long-continued stirring. The 
teeth of wooden combs are kept in a 
perfectly serviceable condition for a 
much longer time if to the ordinary tal- 
low or graphite grease one-tenth part of 
their weight of powdered glass is added. 

TESTS FOR LUBRICANTS. 

In testing lubricants in general, 
great deal depends upon the class o 
work in whieh they are to be employed 
In dealing with lubricating greases the 
specific gravity should always be deter- 
mined. The viscosity is, of course, als< 
a matter of the utmost importajice. 1 
possible the viscosity should be taken a 
the temperature at which the 
u„ -Hhiectcd when used, but this canno 
always be done; 300° F. will be found to 
be a very suitable temperature for the 
determStion of the viscosity of ! h«wy 
lubricants. . Although one . ol th^stan 
dard viacosimeters is tne m 
tory instrument with which to car y 
the test yet it " not a n eces ^ cted , 
vided the test be always con ^ 

exactly f»^;.7 ffi sample 
temperature, using a « ap p ara tus 
for comparison the £rm PP 
used is not of great B „ P ratU s will pro 
dealers in "^/^SKSSuinent, th 
vide a simple an d 2 leap *J m befcnlIK 
rr lts obtained with winch, rf & ? , 

reliable. Wltn ___ fit ud a visco 



LUBBlCANTS magnetic curves 



nol e in ^-iiSfiS'ElS 
Calculated •■"JX^'.oi per cent, and 
ac id should not exceea ... £ eat to 

free f»W^^ott *oufi dissolve 

tloas are somewhat \ T „\ery 

Kajs be used. The specific pavrty 
cVmuld be from .900 to .viz » llLl 
freeing P°int should not be above 58 
TT The flash point of heavy machine 
oils is not matter of great importance 
The vi^ositv of dynamo oils, taken in 
Engler's apparatus, should be 15-16 at 
W° g F, and at 122° F. In dealing 
with wagon oils and greases it should be 
wmcmblred that the best kinds are 
those which are free from rosin and 
rosin products, and their flash point 
should be above 212° F. 

To Test Grease.— To be assured of the 
purity of grease, its density is examined 
as compared with water; a piece of fat of 
the size of a pea is placed in a glass of 
water. If it remains on the surface or 
sinks very slowly the fat is pure; if it 
sinks rapidly to the bottom the fat is 
mixed with heavy matters and coom is 
the result. 

LUBRICANTS FOR WATCHMAKERS: 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 

LUPULINE BITTERS: 
See Wines and Liquors. 



LUSTER PASTE. 

This is used for plate glass, picture 
frames, and metal. Five parts of very 
finely washed and pulverized chalk; 5 
parts of Vienna lime, powdered; 5 parts 
of bolus, powdered; 5 parts of wood 
ashes, powdered; 5 parts of English red 
powdered; 5 parts of soap powder. 
Work all together in a kneading machine, 

aniS Vu Sm ° 0t - h ' even P ilste > ad ding 
spirit. 1 he consistency of the paste can 

sni Z™r ' by ,W in ff the amount of 
spirit, from a solid to a soft mass. 

LUTES: 

See Adhesives. 
MACHINE OIL: 

See Lubricants. 
MACHINERY, TO CLEAN: 
pds.ee Ueamng Preparations and Meth- 



ounces 
ounces 
ounces 
\ drachm 



thf 



MAGIC: . 
See pyrotechnics. 

MAGNESIUM CITRATE. 

Magnesium carbon- 
ate 10 

Citric acid 20 

Sugar 21 

Oil of lemon 

Water enough to 

make 240 ounces 

Introduce the magnesium carbonate into 
a wide-mouthed 2-gallon bottle, drop the oil 
of lemon on it, stir with a wooden stick: 
then add the citric acid, the sugar, and 
water enough to come up to a mark on 
the bottle indicating 240 ounces. For 
this purpose use cold water, addii 
about half of the quantity first, and 
remainder when the substances are 
mostly dissolved. By allowing the solu- 
tion to stand for a half to a whole day, it 
will filter better and more quickly than 
when hot water is used. 

MAGNESIUM ORGEAT POWDER: 
See Salts, Effervescent. 

MAGNESIUM FLASH-LIGHT POW- 
DERS: 

See Photography. 

MAGNETIC CURVES OF IRON FIL- 
INGS, THEIR FIXATION. 

One of the experiments made in every 
physical laboratory in teaching the ele- 
ments of magnetism and electricity is 
the production of the magnetic curves by 
sprinkling iron filings over a glass plate, 
after the well-known method. 

For fixing these curves so that they 
may be preserved indefinitely, a plate ot 
glass is warmed on the smooth upper 
surface of a shallow iron chest containing 
water raised to a suitable temperature 
by means of a spirit-lamp. A piece o 
para (fine is placed on the glass, ana m 
the course of 3 or 4 minutes spreaai 
itself evenly in a thin layer over the su - 
face. The glass plate is removed, tg 
surplus paraffine running on- . 
image is formed with iron filings on v» 
cooled paraffine, which docs not acme 
to the iron, so that if the image W ug 
satisfactory the filings may be rein ^ 
and a new figure taken. To fx , 
curves, the plate of glass is again i p ^ 
on the warming stove. Finally, y^hite 
face of the paraffine is covered Witn j. 
paint, so that the curves appeal " fine d 
on a white ground. Very we 4 g^jilal 
figures may thus he obtained. A . ts i a 
though much simpler process cont» 
covering one surface of stiff wbl fl imW 
with a layer of paraffine, by w 8 * 



MANTLES — MATCHES 



465 



oVe r an Iron plate spreading the filings 
nver the cooled surface, and fixing them 
vrith a hot iron or a gas flame. 
MAGNOLIA METAL: 
See Alloys. 

MAHOGANY: 

gee Wood. 

MALTED FOOD: 

See Foods. 
MALTED MILK: 
See Milk. 

MALT, HOT: 

See Beverages. 

MANGANESE ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 
MANGANESE STEEL: 

See Steel. 

MANGE CURES : 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

MANICURE PREPARATIONS : 

See Cosureties. 

MANTLES. 

These are prepared after processes 
differing slightly from one another, but 
all based on the original formula of 
Welsbach— the impregnation of vege- 
table fibers with certain mineral oxides 
in solution, drying out, and arranging 
on platinum wire. 

Lanthanum oxide ... 30 parts 

Yttrium oxide 20 parts 

Burnt magnesia 50 parts 

Acetic acid 50 parts 

Water, distilled 100 parts 

The salts are dissolved in the water, 
and to the solution another 150 parts of 
distilled water are added and the whole 
filtered. The vegetable _ fiber (in its 
knitted or woven form) is impregnated 
with this solution dried, and arranged on 
platinum wire. In the formula _ the 
acetic acid may be replaced with dilute 
nitric acid. The latter seems to have 
some advantages over the former, among 
which is the fact that the residual ash 
where acetic acid is used has a tendency 
to ball up and make a vitreous residue, 
while that of the nitric acid remains in 
powdery form. 

Self-Igniting Mantles. — A fabric of 
platinum wire and cotton thread > is 
sewed or woven into the tissue of the in- 
candescent body; next it is impregnated 
with a solution of thorium salts and 
dried. The thorium nitrate in glowing 
gives a very loose but nevertheless fire- 
proof residue. A mixture of thorium 
nitrate with platinic chloride leaves after 



incandescence a fire-resisting sponge 
possessing to a great extent th? property 
of igniting gas nnxturcs containing oxy- 
gen. Employ a mixture of 1 p | rt of 

chlS. mtrate tD ^ Part3 ° f P latinic 

MANURES : 

See Fertilizers. 

MANUSCRIPT COPYING: 

See Copying. 

MAPLE: 
See Wood. 

MARASCHINO: 

See Wines and Liquors 

MARBLE CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 

MARBLE CLEANING: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Metb 
ods. 

MARBLE COLORS: 

See Stone. 

MARBLE ETCHING: 

See Etching. 

MARBLE, IMITATION : 

See Plaster. 

MARBLE, PAINTING ON: 

See Painting. 

MARBLE POLISHING : 

See Polishes. 

MARBLING CRAYONS: 

See Crayons. 

MARGERINE : 
See Butter. 

MARKING FLUID: 

See also Inks and Etching. 

For laying out work on structural iro 
or easting better -v than chalki 
the surface is to mix whiting with be 
zine or gasoline to the consistency 
paint a/d then apply it ^? * b ™l 
a few minutes the jrg«c£ 
will evaporate, leaving a white surra 
ready for scribing lines. 
MASSAGE APPLICATIONS: 

See Cosmetics. 
MASSAGE SOAPS: 

See Soaps. 

Matches 

(See also Phosphorus.) 
Manufacture of Matches 
tory uses its own ^fvods a^ 



166 



MATCHES 



•u, We to Sive a full account of the dif 
sible here tog* facture , and of all 

ferent steps ot m * ry t o turn out 
tbe / reC \^Sble matches. In the 

Ijood, ™ a r r p ke T the ordinary safety 
Manufacture ot tne inuted and 

ffi atch the wood „ first com ^ 

SSution of ammonium sulphate t ^ 

^ScKffi^df tie purpose. 
Here are a few formulas: 

I. -Fotassium chlo^^^^ 

Leadbinoxid'e.... 1,150 parts 

Red lead 2,500 parts 

Antimony trisul- 

phide 1,250 parts 

Gum arable 670 parts 

Paraffine 250 parts 

P o t a s s i u m bi- 
chromate. ,'. . . - 1,318 paits 

Directions: See No. II. 

II. — Potassium chlor- 

ate 2,000 parts 

Lead binoxide 2,150 parts 

Red lead. ....... 2,500 parts 

Antimony trisul- 

phide 1,250 parts 

Gum arable 670 parts 

Paraffine 250 parts 

Rub the paraffine and antimony tri- 
sulphide together, and then, add the 
other ingredients. Enough water is 
added to bring the mass to a proper con- 
sistency when heated. Conduct heating 
operations on a water bath. The sticks 
are first dipped in a solution of paraffine 
in benzine and th*»n an> Priori TiYn- 
striking surfaces, 

parts; pulverized iron pyrites, 7 



— „ -v . then are dried. For 
striking surfaces, mix red phosphorus, 9 
parts ; pulverized iron pyrites, 7 parts; 
pulverized glass, 3 parts; and gum ara- 
bicor glue, 1 part, with water, quantity 
sufficient. To make the matches water 
or damp proof, employ glue instead of 
gum arable in the above formula, and 
conduct the operations in a darkened 
ISw I- Parl ° r etches dry the 
S?L ^? mer ?. e the ends in melted 

s:utj: dip in the foiiowi ^ 



Red phosphorus. . . 
trum arabic ot traea- 
eanth .... 



following 

3.0 parts 
0.5 parts 



Water •• 3.0 parts 

Sand (finely ground). 2.0 parts 

Lead binoxide 2.0 parts 

Perfume by dipping in a solution of 
benzoic acid. 

HI — M. O. Lindner, of Paris, has 
patented a match which may be lighted 
by friction upon any surface whatever, 
an d which possesses the advantages of 
being free from danger and of emitting 
no unpleasant odor. The mixture into 
which the splints are first dipped con- 
sists of 

Chlorate of potash. . . 6 parts 
Sulphide of antimony. 2 parts 

Gum 1$ parts 

Powdered clay H part. 

The inflammable compound consists 



of 



Chlorate of potash. 
Amorphous phos- 
phorus 

Gum 



2 to 3 parts 



6 parts 
1^ parts 

Aniline H parts 

Red or amorphous is substituted for 
yellow phosphorus in the match heads. 
The composition of the igniting paste is 
given as follows: 

By weight 

Soaked glue (1 to 5 of 

water) 37.0 parts 

Powdered glass 7.5 parts 

Whiting 7.5 parts 

Amorphous phosphor- 
us (pure) 10.0 parts 

Paraffine wax 4.0 parts 

Chlorate of potash. . . 27.0 parts 
Sugar or lampblack . . 7.0 parts 
Silicate of soda may be substituted for 
the glue, bichromate of potash added lor 
damp climates, and sulphur for large 
matches. . ,. 

The different compositions tor up* 
ping the matches in use in .dineren 
countries and factories all consist essen- 
tially of emulsions of phosphorus m * 
solution of glue or gum, with or witcoui 
other matters for increasing the c 
bustibility, for coloring, etc. 

I. — English. — Fine glue * JgfJJ 
broken into small pieces, and soaKt 4 
water till quite soft, is added to wtw^ 



water till quite sort, is auum r£t t e r 

parts, and heated by means ot a ^ & 

bath until it is quite fluid^aja _ 

temperature of 200° to 212 ±- ^ 

vessel is then removed from the i ^jjj 

phosphorus, 1J to 2 P arts \ l9 t g I bria& 
added, the mixture being agitated 
and continually with a stirrer ^ -gj 
wooden pegs or bristles P rw .^ eC „uls io ° 
lower end. When a uniform en ^ 5 
is obtained, chlorate of potassa. ■ 



to 5 

d 



MATCHES— MATRIX MASSES 



467 



t. powdered glass, 3 to 4 parts; and 
pf VlAd smalt, or other coloring matter, 
1 Efficient quantity (all in a state of very 
* nowder), are added, one at a time, to 
Sent accidents, and the stirring con- 
fwd until the mixture is comparatively 
I The above proportions are those 
S the best quality of English composi- 
The matches tipped with it defla- 



tion 



grate with a snapping noise. 

TI German (Bottger). — Dissolve 
, u m arabic, 10 parts, in the least possi- 
ble quantity of water; add of phosphorus 
fin Dowder), 9 parts, and mix by tritu- 
ration. Then add niter, 14 parts; ver- 
milion or binoxide of manganese, 16 
oarts and Form the whole into a paste as 
directed above. Into this the matches 
are to be dipped, and then exposed to 
dry As soon as they are quite dry they 
are to be dipped into very dilute^ copal 
varnish or lac varnish, and again ex- 
posed to dry, by which, means they are 
rendered waterproof, or at least less 
likely to suffer from exposure in damp 
weather. 

III. (Bottger.) — Glue, 6 parts, is 
soaked in a little cold water for 24 hours, 
after which it is liquefied by trituration 
in a heated mortar; phosphorus, 4 parts, 
is added, and rubbed down at a heat not 
exceeding 150° F.; niter (in fine powder), 
10 parts, is next mixed in, and after- 
wards red ocher, 5 parts, and smalt, % 
parts, are further added, and the whole 
formed into a uniform paste, into which 
the matches are dipped, as before. 
This is cheaper than the previous one. 

IY. (Diesel.) — Phosphorus, 17 parts; 
glue, 21 parts; red lead, 24 parts; niter, 
38 parts. Proceed as above. 

Matches tipped with II, III, or IV, 
inflame without fulmination when rubbed 
against a rough surface, and are hence 
termed noiseless matches by the makers. 

Safety Paste for Matches. — The dan- 
ger of explosion during the preparation 
of match composition may be mini- 
mized by addition to the paste of the 
following mixture: Finely powdered 
cork, 3 parts, by weight; oxide of iron, 
15 parts; flour, 23 parts; and water, 
about 40 parts. In practice, 30 parts of 
gum arabic are dissolved in water, 40 
parts, and to the solution are added 
powdered potassium chlorate, 57 parts, 
and when this is well distributed, amor- 
phous phosphorus, 7 parts, and pow- 
dered glass, 15 parts, are stirred in. The 
above mixture is then immediately in- 
troduced, and when mixing is complete, 
the composition can be applied to 
Wooden sticks which need not have been 



previously dried or paraffined. The 

nnliZ' i h P revents atmospheric 

action and also spontaneous ignition. 

Most chemists agree that the greatest im- 
provement of note in the manufacture of 
matches is that of Landstrom, of Jon- 
koping, m < Sweden. It consists in 
dividing the ingredient of the match mix- 
ture into two separate compositions, one 
being placed on the ends of the splints 
as usual, and the other, which contains 
the phosphorus, being spread in a thin 

i£r r , \ ] P on the end or lid of th e box. 
1 he following are the compositions used: 
(a) For the splints: Chlorate of potassa, 
6 parts; sulphuret of antimony, 2 to 3 
parts; glue, 1 part. (6) For the friction 
surface: Amorphous phosphorus, 10 
parts; sulphuret of antimony or peroxid 
of manganese, 8 parts; glue, 3 to 6 parts 
spread thinly upon the surface, which ha 
been previously made rough by a coating o 
glue and sand. By thus dividing the 
composition the danger of fire arising 
from ignition of the matches by acci- 
dental friction is avoided, as neither the 
portion on the splint nor that on the box 
can be ignited by rubbing against an un- 
prepared surface. Again, by using the 
innocuous red or amorphous phosphorus, 
the danger of poisoning is entirely pre^- 
vented. 

MATCH MARKS ON PAINT, TO RE 

M0VE: - J H/t l\i 

See Cleaning Preparations and Metn 
ods. 

MATCH PHOSPHORUS, SUBSTITUT 
FOR: 

See Phosphorus Substitute. 

Matrix Masses 

Matrix for Medals, Coins etc -L 
Sharp impressions of medds, etc 

are cWned, according to Bo"ger, witn 
the following: Mix molten ^ th mly hqm 
clnlmr with an equal quantity oj ^ 

Sft.S&FSS -S/do not becon,- 
du" or unsightly- ^ 

II.— Bronze »nd s"» er grease 
Jzys be coated wi ia ffi^&W- 
layer. The whole eo n i t w 

and then ^'"^^Sch a mann 
a little wadding, out m au 



468 



MATRIX MASSES MEAD 



the 



■ ci m 0 f grease remains on tn< 
that a thin Wj or to strQn Gard ^ 
surface. Next, a . ring 01 aced e ar0 und 
board or thin steboard is pla ^ 



the edge, an ^ .""* Tittle gyp sum in a 

?he surface of » hlc ^ *^X\rith a 
taken, ^istributu^ it^rrfull^ 

assisted 
>bject is 

01 



£d^-hair brusTi, entering th< 
Sv^. which oj^ra^^ 
by blowmg on it. When ge 
covered with . thin lager or ^ e ^ 
Paris, the plaster, which * d on 

become somewhat st lffer ^ 13 PJ d wi H be 
S °, th rAVSch S ° f T t "rnoval of the 
STJn" e only after a time 

when X plaster has become warm ^ 
cooled again, and has thoroughly hard 
ened I? it be attempted to remove the 
cast from the metal too early and by 
use of force, fine pieces are liable to 
break off and remain adhering tc the 
model. In order to obtain, a positive 
mold from the concave one, it is laid in 
water for a short time, so that it be- 
comes saturated with the water it ab- 
sorbs. The dripping, wet mold is again 
provided with an edge, and plaster ol 
Paris is poured on. The latter readily 
flows out on the wet surface, and only m 
rare cases blisters will form. Naturally 
this casting method will furnish a surface 
of pure gypsum, which is not the case 
if the plaster is poured into a greased 
mold. In this case the surface of the 
cast contains a soapy layer, for the liquid 
plaster forms with oil a subsequently 
rather hard lime soap. The freshly cast 
plaster must likewise be taken off only 
when a quarter of an hour has elapsed, 
after it has become heated and has 
cooled again. 

MATS FOR METALS: 

See Metals. 

MATZOON. 

Add % tablespoonfuls of bakers' yeast 
to 1 pint of rich milk, which has been 



slightly warmed, stirring well together 
and^ setting aside in a warm room in a 



1 



' fJ- kJ j V«-i3 L, 

milk, which has been 
stii 
- in 

pitcher covered with a wet cloth for a 
time varying from 6 to 12 hours, accord- 
ing to the season or temperature of the 
room. Take from this, when curdled, 
6 tablespoonfuls, add to another pint of 
• milk, and again ferment as before, and 
» e a or J™ Recessive fermenta- 
beco^ f ' T hen ^ P^c* will have 
As 3n ee l r0m ? n he taste of th e yeast. 
mLlfvV^ Tl k thick ^ which is 

stffi 1^ ^ ft ! r use ' lt should be 
i»ed again and then put into a re- 



frigerator to prevent further fermentation. 
Tt should be smooth, ot the consistence 0 f 
thick cream, and of a slightly acid taste. 

The milk should be prepared fresh 
every day, and the new supply is made 
bv adding 6 tablespoonfuls of the p re , 
vious day*s lot to a pint of milk and pro- 
ceeding as before. 

The curd is to be eaten with a spoon 
not drunk, and preferably with some 
bread broken into it. It is also some- 
times eaten with sugar, which is said not 
to impair its digestibility. 



MEAD. 

In its best form Mead is made as fol- 
lows: 12 gallons of pure, soft water (clean 
rain water is, next to distilled water, 
best) are mixed with 30 pounds of ex- 
pressed honey in a big caldron, 4 ounces 
of hops added, and the whole brought 
to a boil. The boiling is continued 
with diligent skimming, for at least an 
hour and a half. The fire is then drawn, 
and the liquid allowed to cool down 
slowly. When cold, it is drawn off into 
a clean barrel, which it should fill to the 
bung, with a little over. A pint of fresh 
wine yeast or ferment is added, and the 
barrel put in a moderately warm place, 
with the bung left out, to ferment for 
from 8 to 14 days, according to the 
weather (the warmer it is the shorter 
the period occupied in the primary or 
chief fermentation). Every day the 
foam escaping from the bung should be 
carefully skimmed off, and every 2 or 3 
days there should be added a little honey 
and water to keep the barrel quite tun, 
and in the meantime a pan or cup snouia 
be inverted over the hole, to keep out 
dust, insects, etc. When fermentation 
ceases, the procedure vanes. oo*» 
merely drive in the bung securely ana i 
the liquor stand for a few weeks, u 
bottle; but the best German makers p 
ceed as follows, this being a far supe * 
process: The liquor is remove d ir^. 
the barrel in which it fermented to » 
other, clean, barrel, being strfllD the 
through a haircloth sieve to P r ^™ on | 
admission of the old yeast. A 



<.,...>>....,,,!, in >>i<« 1 idiiid 

portion of yeast is added, and tne j 
allowed to pass through the scco* ua 
fermentation, lasting usually as J » 
the first. The bung is driven into 
barrel, the liquid allowed to stanU dra1 vii 
days to settle thoroughly and then 
off into bottles and stored in J»« 
way. Some add nutmeg, c } v " 
etc., prior to the last fermentation 



as 



MEERSCHAUM— METALS 



469 



^ee W^S ts and M easures - 
^ AS URE3, TO CLEAN ? 

gee Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

i 3 AX EXTRACT CONTAINING AL- 
BUMEN: 

See Foods. 
j^EAT PEPTONOIDS: 

See Peptonoids. 
mAT PRESERVATIVES: 

See Foods. 

MEAT PRODUCTS (ADULTERATED) : 

See Foods. 
MEDAL IMPRESSIONS: 

See Matrix Mass. 
MEDALS, CLEANING AND PRESERV- 
ING: 

See Cleaning Compounds. 
MEDALLION METAL: 
See Alloys. 

MEDICINE DOSES: 

See Doses. 

MEERSCHAUM: 

To Color a Meerschaum Pipe. — I. — Fill 
the pipe and smoke down about one- 
third, or to the height to which you wish 
to color. Leave the remainder of the 
tobacco in the pipe, and do not empty or 
disturb it for several weeks, or until the 
desired color is obtained. When smok- 
ing put fresh tobacco on the top and 
smoke to the same level. A new pipe 
should never be smoked outdoors in 
extremely cold weather. 

IF — The pipe is boiled in a prepara- 
tion of wax, 8 parts; olive oil, 2 parts; 
and nicotine, 1 part, for 10 or 15 minutes. 
The pipe absorbs this, and a thin coating 
of wax is held on the surface of the pipe, 
and made to take a high polish. Under 
the wax is retained the oil of tobacco, 
^hich is absorbed by the pipe; and its 
hue grows darker in proportion to the to- 
bacco used. A meerschaum pipe at 
nrst should be smoked very slowly, and 
before a second bowlful is lighted the 
pipe should cool off. This is to keep the 
"Wax as far up on the bowl as possible; 
rapid smoking will overheat, driving the 
^•x ofF and leaving the pipe dry and 

To Repair Meerschaum Pipes. — To 
nf 1 ^ 11 ! meerschaum pipes, make a glue 
ot tinely powdered and sifted chalk and 
white of egg. Put a little of this glue on 
parts to be repaired and hold them 

£! Ct ! t0 ^ ether for a moment, 
also Adheres under Cements. 



To Tell Genuine Meerschaum t? 

with silver l |f +^ ■ 1 true arflc 'e. rub 
pendldlr/maltn feal^i^ 
genuine but artificial meerSum. ' "no 

genuine^ tte 

MENTHOL COUGH DROPS; 

See Confectionery. 

MENTHOL TOOTH POWDER : 

See Dentifrices. 

MERCURY SALVES: 

See Ointments. 

MERCURY STAINS, TO REMOVE: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

METACARBOL DEVELOPER: 

See Photography. 

Metals and Their Treatment 

METAL CEMENTS r 

See Adhesives and Lutes. 

METAL CLEANING: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

METAL INLAYING: 

See Damaskeening. 

METAL POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 

METAL PROTECTEES: 

See Rust Preventives. 

METAL VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 
METALS, HOW TO ATTACH TO RUB- 
BER: _ 

See Adhesives, under Rubber Cements. 

METALS, SECURING WOOD TO: 

See Adhesives. 
METALS, BRIGHTENING AND DEAD- 
ENING, BY DIPPING: 

Brightening Pickle. -To brighten ar- 

surface turns dull; neither murtj J 




^ s *iX dansw of obtaining 
fortis, to reduce the thflt the 

^ti^ou'ofvitffwhicMs added. 



METALS 



* It is added because the action 
is correct. I* is ^aae uncertain, 
of the ^t Ume it beconTes so heated 
ffStt rihe medals that it turns oU 



» actio. do not 

diluted with wate r ^ *. h p or this 
tcome ^ {c h tTsh^ be used, 
reason sul P\ u "t aC k the metals; it only 
This does not ,f^ C t ; s ^nd distributes the 
dilutes the aqua fortis ana . □ 

giV D?p b tte W articles 5 which must be free 
from gre^e, into the pickle .after they 
h ™ been either annealed and quenched 
in dduted sulphuric acid or washed out 
with benzine. Leave them m the dip- 
ping mixture until they become covered 
with a greenish froth. Then quickly 
immerse them in a vessel containing 
plenty of water, and wash them out well 
with running water. Before entering 
the dipped articles in the baths it is well 
to remove all traces of acid, by passing 
them through a weak soda or potassium 
cyanide solution and washing them out 
again. If the brightly dipped goods are 
to remain bright they must be coated 
with a thin spirit, or zapon acquer. 

Following are two formulas for the 
pickle: 
I.— Aquafortis, 36° Be., 

by weight 100 parts 

Oil of vitriol (sul- 
phuric acid), 66° 
Be., by weight . . 70 parts 
Cooking salt, by 

volume. ........ 1£ parts 

Shining soot (lamp- 
black), by vol- 
ume ij p ar ts 

H.— Aqua fortis, 40°Be. ( 

by weight loo parts 

Oil of vitriol, G6° 



ftnee is desired for metals the article i a 
corroded either mechanically or cheniic 
ally In the first case it is pierced with 
fine holes near together, rubbed with 
emery powder or pumice stone and tarn- 
penned. In the other case the corrosion 
is effected in acid baths thus composed- 

Nitric acid of 36° Be., 200 parts, by 
volume; sulphuric acid of 56° Be., aoo 
parts, by volume; sea salt, 1 part, by 
volume; zinc sulphate, 1 to 5 parts, by 
volume. . 

With this proportion of acids the 
articles can remain from 5 to 20 minutes 
in the mixture cold; the prominence of 
the matt depends on the length of time 
of the immersion. The pieces on being 
taken from the bath have an earthy ap- 
pearance which is lightened by dipping 
them quickly in a brightening acid. IE 
left too long the matted appearance is 
destroyed. 

Cotton Matt. — This matt, thus called 
on account of its soft shade, is rarely 
employed except for articles of stamped 
brass, statuettes, or small objects. As 
much zinc is dissolved in the bath as it 
will take. The pieces are left in it from 
15 to 30 minutes. On coming from the 
bath they are dull, and to brighten them 
somewhat they are generally dipped into 
acids as before described. 

Silver Matt.— Articles of value for 
which gilding is desired are matted by 
covering them with a light coating of 
silver by the battery. It is known that 
this deposit is always matt, unless the 
bath contains too large a quantity ot 
potassium cyanide. A brilliant silvering 
can be regularly obtained with electric 
baths only by adding carbon sulp^ 



Be., by weight . . . 
Cooking salt, by 

volume. 

Shining soot, by 
■volume 



100 



parts 
parts 



2 parts 

itead of brilliancy, a matted appear- 



Four drachms are put in an emery .flag 
containing a quart of the bath fluid auu 
allowed to rest for 24 hours, at the « 
of which a blackish precipitate is bnnu . 
After decanting, a quart is P° u J e jU£e 
the electric bath for each quart beio 
every operation of silvering. 

Dangers of Dipping. -The operation 
of dipping should be earned out omj. 
a place where the escaping fumes oi . r ff 
nitric acid and chlorine can P<^ g> 
without molesting the workmen, ^ 
under a well-drawing chimney , p^. aJ1 
ably in a vapor chamber, n era tor 
arrangement is not present the 
should choose a draughty place a 
tcct himself from the fumes b> ^ por s 
wet sponge under his nose. \ , oJ id 
are liable to produce very vto regp j r! i- 
dangcrous inflammations of t ]1 r j 5 jngly 
tory organs, coming on in a su f 




I 



METALS 



471 



quick manner after one has felt no pre- 
vious injurious effect at ail. 

COLORING METALS: 

See also Plating- 
Processes by Oxidation. — By heat:— 
Coloration of Steel.— The steel, heated 
uniformly, is covered in the air with a 
pellicle of oxide and has successively the 
following colors: Straw yellow, blue (480° 
to 570° P.), violet, purple, water-green, 
disappearance of the color; lastly the steel 
reddens. For producing the blue read- 
ily, plunge the object into a bath of 25 
parts of lead and 1 part of tin; its tem- 
perature is sufficient for bluing small 
pieces. 

Bronzing of Steel. — I.— The piece to 
be bronzed is wet by the use of a sponge 
with a solution formed of iron perchlor- 
ide, eupric sulphate, and a nitric acid. 
It is dried in a stove at 86° F., then kept 
for 20 minutes over boiling water. It is 
dried again at 86° F., and rubbed with a 
scratch brush. 

This operation is repeated several 
times. 

Bronzing of Steel.— II. — Rust and 
grease are removed from the objects 
with a paste of whiting and soda. They 
are immersed in a bath of dilute sul- 
phuric acid, and rubbed with very fine 
pumice-stone powder. They are then 
exposed from 2 to 3 minutes to the vapor 
of a mixture of equal parts of concen- 
trated chlorhydric and nitric acids. 

The object is heated to 570° to 660° F. 
until the bronze color appears. When 
cooled, it is covered with paraffine or 
vaseline while rubbing, and heated a 
second time until the vaseline or paraf- 
fine commences to decompose. The 
operation is repeated. The shades ob- 
tained are beautiful, and the bronzing is 
not changeable. By subjecting the ob- 
ject to the vapors of the mixture of chlor- 
hydric and nitric acids, shades of a light 
reddish brown are obtained. By add- 
ing to these two acids acetic acid, beau- 
tiful yellow bronze tints are procured. 
By varying the proportion of these three 
acids, all the colors from light reddish 
brown to deep brown, or from light 
yellow bronze to deep yellow bronze, are 
produced at will. 

Bronzing. — III. — Under the name of 
Tuker bronze, a colored metal is found 
m trade which imitates ornamental 
bronze perfectly. It is obtained by de- 
oxidizing or, if preferred, by burnishing 
cast iron. A thin layer of linseed oil or 
of linseed-oil varnish is spread on. It is 
heated at a temperature sufficient for 



of ^W min f % °P ett air the oxidation 
of the metal. The temperature is raised 
more or less, according as a simple yel- 
low coloration or a deep brown is desired 



Lustrous Black -In a quantity of oil 
of turpenbne, sulphuric acid is poured 
drop by drop, stunng continually until 
a precipitate is no longer formed. Then 
the whole is poured into water, shaken, 
decanted, and the washing of the pre 
cipitate commenced again until blue 
litmus paper immersed in the water is 
no longer reddened. The precipitate 
will thus be completely freed from acid 
After having drained it on a cloth, it is 
ready for use. It is spread on the iron 
and burned at the fire. 

If the precipitate spreads with diffi- 
culty over the metal, a little turpentine 
can be added. It is afterwards rubbed 
with a linen rag, soaked with linseed oil, 
until the surface assumes a beautiful 
lustrous black. This covering is not 
liable to be detached. 

Bluish Black. — Make a solution com- 
posed of nitric acid, 15 parts; cupric 
sulphate, 8 parts; alcohol, 20 parts; and 
water, 125 parts. Spread over the metal 
when well cleaned and grease removed. 
Dry and rub with linen rag. 

Black. — Make a solution composed of 
cupric sulphate, 80 parts; alcohol, 40 
parts; ferric chloride, SO parts; nitric 
acid, 20 parts; ether, 20 parts; water, 
400 to 500 parts, and pass over the ob- 
ject to be blackened. 

Magnetic Oxide.— I.— A coating of 
magnetic oxide preserves from rust. 
To obtain it, heat the object in a fur- 
nace to a temperature sufficient to de- 
compose steam. Then inject from 4 to 
6 hours superheated steam at 1,100 M 
The thickness of the layer of oxide 
formed varies with the duration of the 
operation. This, process may replace 
zmcking, enameling, or tinning. ^ 

II.— A deposit of magnetic oxide may 
be obtained by electrolysis.. The iron 
object is placed at the Mode in a bath of 
distilled water heated to 1/G i F The 
cathode is a plate of copper, or the ves- 
sel Its eK if it is of iron or copper B; 
electrolysis a layer of magnetic oxide .a 

f01 T^ie same way other peroxides may 
i. a i„ Jrd Wth an alkaline solution 
offiSa ge a bSnt black, deposit of 
i j„„n«de very adherent, is obtained. 
le TSe^A^t of too strong a cur, 
n+ musTEe avoided. It will produce a 
rent mu f* ° e d " iti To obtain a good 
pulverulent depo^U ^ fa 

SbjSf for"* at the opposite 



4TS 



METALS 



them at 



the other pole 



i at tne ^ j 

completely reduced, 

d 



en bring ^-Oxidized 

by % h "^?p^ 

in to some^ melted sugnu ining the 

lampblack ox mto a hju ^ j p 

flowers of suipn u± & d d j^e 

Hack. It m . dr T r e p i s ? s acids, and may 
bronzing obtained res i ^aci ^ has tbe 

acquire a b»fj ffitrowe, due Pf 

feeiE^nS^-e Si stance 

to chemical agents. su l p hur 
Brilliant Black.-Bo,l «sS phur- 

and 10 parts t^^.J.SL^blc odor. 
Spread this oil wuu m the 

S S P ° S of ^ alcohol lamp until the patina 
flame of an aiconoi ^^J^ . pro- 
takes the tint d l s » e *- e /X$£nt black 
duces on iron and steel a do u 
patina, which is extremely solid. 

Blue -Dissolve 500 drachms of hypo- 
sulphite of soda in 1 quart of water, and 
|fg ains of lead acetate in 1 quart of 
water The two solutions mingled are 
heated to the boiling point The iron ,s 
■ immersed, and assumes a blue coloration 
flimilar to that obtained by annealing. 




Deposit of a Metal or of a Hon-Oxi- 
dizable Compound.— Bronze Color.— 
Rub the iron smartly with chloride of 
antimony. A single operation is not 
sufficient. It is necessary to repeat it, 
heating the object slightly. 

Black. — I. — Make a paste composed 
of equal parts of chloride of antimony 
and linseed oil. Spread on the object, 
previously heated, with a brush or rag; 
then pass over it a coating of wax and 
brush it. Finally varnish with gum lac. 

II. — Prepare a solution of bismuth chlo- 
ride, 10 parts; mercury chloride, 20 parts; 
cupric chloride, 10 parts; hydrochloric 
acid, 60 parts; alcohol, 50 parts; water, 
600 parts. Add fuchsine in sufficient 
quantity to mask the color. 

The mercury chloride is poured into 
the hydrochloric acid, and the bismuth 
chloride and cupric chloride added; then 
the alcohol. Employ this mixture with 
*™or a rag for smearing the object. 
1 he object may also be immersed in the 
liquid if it is well cleaned and free from 

8r? « 8 j i 13 dried atlci afterwards sub- 
mitted to boiling water for half an hour. 

t\ ; t ?P eratl ? n is repeated until the 

2SS " tmt J 1 ? obtain *d; then the 
object 13 passed into the ail bath and 



taken to the fire without wiping, 
obiect may also be placed for 10 minutes 
S foiling linseed oil _ 

Brown Tint. A solution is made of 
chloride of mercury, 20 parts; cupric 
£wide 10 parts; hydrochloric acid, 60 
farts; alcohol, 50 parts; water 500 parts. 
The object is plunged into this so ution 
after being well cleaned The solution 
may also be applied with a brush, giving 
two^oats. It is afterwards put into hot 
iter The surface of the object is cov- 
TLtd with a uniform layer of vegetable oil. 
Tt is placed in a furnace at a high tempera- 
ture but not sufficient for carbonizing 
the 'oil The iron is covered with a thin 
laver of brown oxide, which adheres 
Pronely to the metal, and which can be 
beautifully burnished, producing the ap- 
pear an ce of bronze. 

Brilliant Black.^The process begins 
bv depositing on the object, perfectly 
clean and free from grease, a layer of 
metallic copper. For this purpose the 
following solutions are prepared; (a) 
Cupric sulphate, 1 part; water, 16 parts. 
Add ammonia until complete dissolu- 
tion Of) Chloride of tin, 1 part; water, 
% parts; and chlorhydric acid 2 parts. 
The object is immersed m solution b, 
and afterwards in solution a. In this 
wav there is deposited on the iron a very 
afferent coating of copper. The object 
washed with water, is afterwards rubbej 
with sulphur, or immersed m a taflj 
of ammoWm sulphhydrate Adu Wad 
coating of cupric sulphide is produ^a 
whicrAecomes a brilliant black b> burn 

ishing. . fl . 

Blue Black.-The iron object «jW 
heated according to the ^"Jg 
but the copper Is converted into gpg 
sulphide, not by a svdphhydi;^ but|| 



a hyposulphite. It is sufficient to 
the coppered object mto.a 0 
sodium hyposulphite, acidulated ^ 
chlorhydric acid, and raised to w 
perature of 175° to 195° F. , . d 
Thus a blue-black coating is ° Dta ^ t<? | 
unchangeable in air and in *fft' stee l. 
polishing, it has the color or on ■. ^ m 
It adheres strongly enough to - 
action of the scratch brush. ^ 
Deposition of Molybdenum. jt ^ 
preserved from rust by Cl,ve ™ ' B f 0 ilow# 
a coating of molybdenum, . as niolyD - 
Water, 1,000 parts; ammonium ^ (0 
date, 1 part; ammonium ni«» ' ftt the 
20 parts. Suspend the °%u e C urrert« 
negative pole of a battery. A ^ 5 aB i- 
ought to have a strength 01 * 
rjeres per cubic decimeter. 
Deposit of Manganese Peroxi 



METAJLS 



478 



iron or steel is first covered with a coat- 
; ll£r of manganese peroxide by immer- 
Jina as an anode in a bath containing 
about 0.05 per cent of chloride or sul- 
fate of manganese and from 5 to 25 per 
cent of ammonium nitrate. ihe bath is 
electrolyzed cold, making use of a cath- 
ode of charcoal. Feeble currents (1 or 
2 amperes) produce an adherent and 
unchangeable deposit. 

Bronzing of Cannon. — Prepare a solu- 
tion of ferric chloride of density 1.2S1, 
14 parts; mercury chloride, 3 parts; fum- 
ing nitric acid, 3 parts; cupric sulphate, 
S parts; water, 80 parts. Give to the 
piece of ordnance 2 or 3 coatings of the 
solution, taking care always to scratch 
the preceding layer with a steel brush 
before spreading the second. Afterwards, 
the object is plunged in a solution of 
potassium sulphide in 900 parts of water. 
It is left in this for 10 days. It is removed 
by washing with soap and hot water. 
The object is rinsed, dried, and finally 
brushed with linseed-oil varnish. 

Green Bronzing. — Dissolve 1 part of 
acetate of silver in 20 parts of essence of 
lavender; coat the surface of iron with 
this liquid by means of a brush and raise 
the temperature to 292° F. A brilliant 
green color is developed on the surface. 

Coating on Steel Imitating Gilding.— 
The abject is hist covered by the gal- 
vanic method by means of a solution of 
cyanide of copper and potassium, then 
covered elcctrolytically with a thin de- 
posit of zinc. It is dried and cleaned 
with a little washed chalk and finally 
immersed in boiling linseed oil. The 
surface of the piece after a few seconds, 
at a temperature of 310° F., appears as if 
there had been a real penetration of cop- 
per and zinc; that is to say, as though 
there were a formation of tombac. 

Bronzing of Cast Iron. — The piece, 
^ben scraped, is coppered with the fol- 
lowing bath: Cupric chloride, 10 parts; 
hydrochloric acid, 80 parts; nitric acid, 
10 parts. It is rubbed with a rag and 
washed with pure water, and then 
rubbed with the following solution: Am- 
monium chlorhydrate, 4 parts; oxalic 
aci Q, 1 part; water, 30 parts. 

Gilding of Iron and Steel.— Chloride 
ot gold is dissolved either in oil of tur- 
pentine or in ether, and this solution is 
a Pphed with the brush on the metallic 
surface, after being perfectly scraped. 
lt is allowed to dry, and then heated 
fciore or less strongly for obtaining the 
necessary adherence. When it is dry 
tae gilding is burnished. 



tive to ight mai ho C ? loratloas > *«* 

the follows s:r h o b d. given to aetais * 

a ^rS^ff^ ™«d in 
dried in a current Ttot^l T^f 
When the varnish is sufficiently drv 
objects are bathed for a f e i 2 d t ry '. the 
2 per cent alcoholic^ W 0 "a] 
or of a cd or of the same £ Q up fi! 
washing with water the yellowish coh? 
covering the object on coming from the 
coloring bath passes to the golden red 

Coloring Copper. -To redden copper 
hang it from a few minutes to an hour 
according to the shade wanted, in a 5 to 10 
per cent solution of ferrocyanide of po- 
tassium m water. By adding a little 
hydrochloric acid to the solution the 
color given to the copper mav be made to 
assume a purple shade. On removing 
the copper, dry it in the air or in fine saw- 
dust, rinse, and polish with a brush or 
chamois leather, after drying it again. 

Coloring Brass. —To redden brass, dip 
in solution of 5 ounces of sulphate of 
copper and 6 to 7 ounces of perman- 
ganate of potash in 500 ounces of water. 

To blue copper or brass any one of th 
following recipes may he used: 

I. — Dip the article in a solution of 2 
ounces of liver of sulphur and 2 ounces 
of chlorate soda in 1,000 ounces of water. 

II. — Dip the article in a solution of 
ferrocyanide of potassium very strongly 
acidulated with hydrochloric acid. 

III. — Stir the article about constantly 
in a solution of liver of sulphur in 50 
times its weight of water. 

Fusion Point of Metals.— The point 
of fusion of common metals is as follows: 
Antimony, 80S* F.J aluminum, 1,160 F; 
bismuth, 517° F.; eopper, 1 93V F ; gold 
1,913° F.; iron, 2,012° F.; leac , 830 F, 
nickel, 2,642° P.; plenum, . 3 2|5 
silver, 1,750° P.; tin, 551°F.; zmc 81 2 F- 
Mercury, which is normally fluid, con- 
geals at 38°. below zero, F„ this being its 
point of fusion. 

mers. Alth ° u ^ ln ^ deeree of fineness, 
h'Lo ".So precipitation is oo.pl.yed 

1 fa£KtfS3S& copper, h z 

te rtd in th. bath .nd amn.ct.5 with t». 



t74 

j ., The current precijw- 
|ectric conduit, xa t<) gen t, 

tfes gold M'^ieis placed in a solu- 
lB gilt copper Plate is p s 



METALS— MILK 



II 

Per cent 
98.47 
0.38 
0.84 
0.12 



other metals 

Per cent 
97.60 

Li" oil 

>p? er S:oi 

Lead »■ 

Iron 

Nickel ■ ■ " "' t m 

I is a mirror foil; III is a tin foil 

Tin Foils for Capsules.— 

Per cent 

Tin |S 

Lead 80 

Copper 



III 

per cent 
96.21 
0.95 
2.41 
0.09 
0-30 



II 

Per cent 

22 
77 
1 



Tin Foils for Wrapping Cheese, etc 



Tin. ... 
Lead. . 
Copper 



I II 
Percent Percent 
97 90 
2.5 7.8 
0.5 0.2 



III 

Per cent 
92 
7 
1 



Tin Foils, for Fine Wrapping, I and II; 
for Tea Boxes, III. — 

I II III 

Per cent Per cent Per cent 



Tin 60 

Lead 40 

Copper..... 

Imitation Gold Foils. — 

Deep 



65 
35 



40 
58.5 
1.6 



ipper. 
inc. . . 



Pure Pale 
gold gold gold 
Per cent Per cent Per cent 

Copper 84.5 78 76 

Zinc 15.5 22 14 

Deep Deep 

gold gold Gold 

Per cent Per cent Per cent 

91 86 83 

9 14 17 

dark pale 

reddish yellow yellow 

, Imitation Silver Foil.— Alloy of tin and 
mc: harder than tin and softer than zinc: 



Zinc, 



wuci uiau Tin ana s 
, 1 part; tin. U parts. 

To Attach Gold Leaf Permanently. 
Dissolve finely cut isinglass in a lit 
water- with moderate heat, which «- 



tile 
must 



f be increased to a boil, and add as 
ich nitric acid as has been used of the 

^imrlass The adhesive will not penetrate 

Cardboard or paper. 

MILDEW: 

To Prevent Sails on Small Boats 
A Yachts from Mildewing.— To each 
Gallon of water add % pound of slaked 
n-me and allow this to stand for half an 
hour before using. In preparing a solution 
of lime water the important thing to do is 
to make certain that there is an excess of 
lime Lime is only slightly soluble in 
water and it is necessary to make certain 
that the water has dissolved all the lime 
it is capable of doing. The sails are 
dipped in the lime water and allowed to 
dry The process should he repeated 
each season. 

MICROPHOTOGRAPHS 

See Photography. 

MILK: 

See also Foods. 

Determining Cream. — An apparatus 
for determining cream in milk consists 
of a glass cylinder having a mark about 
half its heirht. and a second mark a little 
above the first. The milk is added up to 
the lower mark, and water up to the 
second. The amount of water thus 
added is about one-fourth the volume of 
the milk, and causes the cream to rise 
more quickly. The tube is graduated 
between the two marks in percentages o 
cream on the undiluted milk. A vertical 
blue strip in the side of the cylmder aids 
the reading of the meniscus. 

• Formaldehyde in Milk, Detection ofg 
To 10 parts of milk add 1 part of hiohnj 
sulphurous acid. Allow to stand 5 min 
utes, then add % parts or pure 
chloric acid and shake. , If fortWj^ 
hyde is not present, the nurture rem, 
yellowish white, while if present at ^ 
violet color is produced. J-his 
detect 1 grain of anhydrous form 
hyde in 1 quart of milk. ^ 

Malted Milk.— To malt milk, at 
following: 

Powdered malt. ■ ■ 
Powdered oat meal. 

Sugar- of milk 

Roasted flour 

TYiadef r ° w 

Milk Extracts.— These are m< sUga r 
skimmed milk freed from cah€ ' fl t «f 
and albumen, and resemble J^jy^tg 
tracts. The milk is slightly ac aCl d, 
with phosphoric or 

hydrocn.u- DSIS - 
and evaporated in vacuo to 



1 ounce 
a ounces 
4 ounces 
1 pound 



MILK 



475 



tpncY of thick syrup. During the crys- 
tallization of the sugar, the liquid 13 
sterilized. 

Modification of Milk for Infants. — 
For an ill child note the percentages of 
milk taken; decide, if indigestion is 
present, which ingredient of the milk, fat 
or proteid, or both, is at fault, and make 
formula accordingly. 

After allowing the milk to stand a 
boors, remove the top 8 ounces from a 
quart jar of 4 per cent fat milk by means 
of a dipper, and count this as IS per cent 
fat cream. Count the lowest 8 ounces of 
(he quart fat-free milk. From these the 
following formula may be obtained, 
covering fairly well the different per- 
centages required for the different pe- 
riods of life. 

First Week. 
lg per cent cream. Fat-free milk. 



Fat 

Sugar. . - 
Froteids . 



Fat. . . 

Sugar 6.00 

Froteids 



Cream .... 3} 

.5.00 Milk. l| 

0.75 Milk sugar 2 

Second Week. 

2.50 Cream .... 4| 

Milk 1^ 



Fat 

Sugar. . . 
Froteids 



Fat 

Sugar. . . 
Froteids . 



Fat 

Sugar . . . 
Froteids. 



Fat 

Sugar. . , 
Froteids. 



1.00 Milk sugar 2£ meas. 

Third Week. 
3.00 Cream .... .5 oz. 



6.00 
1.00 



Milk 1 oz. 

Milk sugar. 2£ meas. 

Four to Six Weeks, 
3.50 Cream , . . . 5J oz. 



6.50 



Milk. 
Milk 



Fat 

Sugar, . 
Froteids . 



1.00 iVlilK sugar 

Six to Eight Weeks. 
3.50 Cream .... 5| 

6.50 Milk 3} 

1.50 Milk sugar 2£ 

Two to Four Months. 
4.00 Cream .... 6| 

7.00 Milk %\ 

1.50 Milk sugar 2| 

Four to Eight Months. 
4.00 Cream .... 6f 
7.00 Milk 4| 



Fat.. . 
Sugar. . 
Froteids. 



2.00 Milk sugar 2J meas. 

Eight to Nine M onths. 

Cream .... 6| oz. 



Fat. . 
Sugar. . . 
Froteids . . 3. 



4.00 
. 7.00 
. 2.50 

Nine to 

. 4.00 
7.00 



Milk 7 J 

Milk sugar 2 

Ten Months. 

Cream .... 6 | 

Milk 104 

ilk sugar If 



Fat 

Sugar. . , 
Proteids, 



Ten to Twelve Months. 
■ 4.00 Cream .... fi? tw 

• s.oo Miik.... ill ™; 

• 3.50 Milk sugar f meas. 
After Twelve Months. 
Unmodified cow's milk. 

Pasteurization of Milk.— In order to 
make milk safe for human consumption 
it is necessary to destroy any harmful 
bacteria which may be present. By far 
the most widely use d method is one of 
heat treatment or pasteurization named 
alter its inventor Pasteur. 

There are two methods of pasteurizing 
milk, one known as the "flash" process 
and the other the "holder" process. 

In the first method the milk is heated 
to a temperature of 160 to 165* P. for 
about 1 minute, cooled to about 40° F., 
bottled and placed in refrigerator. In 
the "holder" process the milk is heated 
and kept at a temperature of about 140° 
F. for 30 minutes, cooled as before and 
bottled. 

Pasteurized milk is less easily digested 
by infants as the enzymes which it con- 
tains are destroyed. 

The second method is preferable in 
that the milk does not acquire the 
"cooked" taste and the enzymes are not 
as readily destroyed as in the "flash" 
method which uses a higher temperature. 

Milk Substitute. — Diamalt is a thick 
syrupy mass of pleasant, strong, some- 
what sourish odor and sweetish taste, 
which is offered as a substitute for milk. 
The preparation has been analyzed. Its 
specific gravity is 1.4826; the percentage 
of water fluctuates between 24 and 28 
per cent; the amount of ash is 1.3 per 
cent. There are present: Lactic acid, 
0 718 to 1.51; nitrogenous matter, 4.68 
to 5.06 per cent; and constituents rich in 
nitrogen, about 68 per cent. The latter 
consist principally of maltose. Dissolved 
in water it forms a greenish-yellow mixt- 
ure Turbidness Fs caused by starch 
grains, yeast cells, bacteria, and a shape- 
less coagulum. 

MILK AS A SUBSTITUTE FOR CELLU- 
LOID, BONE, AND IVORY. 

See Casein. 

MILK, CUCUMBER: 

See Cosmetics. 

Cieanin^Freparations and Metb 
odf un^r Miscellaneous Methods. 

MINARGENT! 
See Alloys. 



476 

MINERAL WATERS: 

See Waters. 
JHNOFOR METAL: 

See Alloys. 
MINT CORDIAL : 

See Wines and Liquors. 

Mirrors 

(See also Glass.) 
Mirror Silvering.-Mirror silvering is 
sometimes a misnomer, inasmuch as , the 
coatin" applied to glass in the manu 
facture 0 of mirror, does not always con- 
tain silver. In formula I it is an amal- 
am of mercury and tin. 

I A sheet of pure tin foil, slightly 

larger than the glass plate to be silvered 
is Ipread evenly on a perfectly plane 
stone table having a raised edge, and is 
well cleaned from all dust and inipunty. 
The foil must be free from the slightest 
flaw or crack. The tin is next covered 
uniform! v to a depth of J of an inch 
with mercury, preference being given by 
some to that containing a small propor- 
tion of tin from a previous operation. 
The glass plate, freed from all dust or 
grease, and repolished if necessary, is 
then carefully slid over the mercury. 
This part of the work requires skill and 
experience to exclude all air bubbles, and 
even the best workmen are not successful 
every time. If there is a single bubble or 
scratch the operation must be repeated 
and the tin foil is lost; not a small expense 
for large sizes. When this step has been 
satisfactorily accomplished the remainder 
is easy, The glass plate is loaded with 
heavy weights to press out the excess of 
mercury which is collected and is used 
again. After 24 hours the mirror is 
lifted from the table and placed on edge 
against a wall, where it is left to drain 
well. 

II.— Solution No. 1 is composed as 
follows: To 8 ounces of distilled water, 
brought to a boil, add 12 grains of silver 
nitrate and 12 grains of Rochelle salts. 
Let it come to a boil for 6 to 7 minutes- 
then cool and Biter. 

Solution No. 2 is made as follows: 
Take 8 ounces of distilled water, and 
into a smfll quantity poured into a tum- 
bler put 19 grams of silver nitrate. Stir 
well until dissolved. Then add several 
drops of 26° ammonia until the solution 
becomes clear. Add 16 grains more of 

so Wed "AHiTl^^V 1 «»tS "5- 

Sdtpr ifr. 0 ' distiUed ™ter 
ana niter. lhe filter in a must K« 

through a glass fnmJJ ' ^ d ° ne 



eep the 



in which 




filter paper is placed. The solution 
be stlrrSd with a glass rod. W 
solutions in separate bottles marked Nb. 
1 and No. 2. 

Directions for Silvering: Clean the 
_K SS w ith ammonia and wipe with a 
wet chamois. Then take half and half of 
the two solutions in a graduating glass, 
stirring well with a glass rod. Pour the 
contents on the middle of the glass to be 
silvered. It will spread over the surface 
of itself if the glass is laid flat. Leave it 
until the solution precipitates. 

Silvering Globes. — The insides of globes 
may be silvered, it is said, by the follow- 
ing methods: 

j Take % ounce of clean lead, and 

melt it with an equal weight of pure tin; 
then immediately add £ ounce of bismuth, 
and carefully skim off the dross; remove 
the alloy from the fire, and before it 
grows cold add 5 ounces of mercury, and 
stir the whole well together; then put the 
fluid amalgam into a clean glass, and it 
is fit for use. When this amalgam is 
used for silvering, it should be first 
strained through a linen rag; then gently 
pour some ounces of it into the globe in- 
tended to be silvered; the alloy should be 
poured into the globe by means of a 
paper or glass funnel reaching almost to 
the bottom of the globe, to prevent it 
splashing the sides; the globe should be 
turned every way very slowly, to fasten 
the silvering. 

II. — Make an alloy of 3 ounces of 
lead, 2 ounces of tin, and 5 ounces of 
bismuth. Put a portion of this alloy 
into the globe and expose it to a gentle 
heat until the compound is melted; it 
melts at 197° F.; then by turning the 
globe slowly round, an equal coating 
may be laid on, which, when cold, hard- 
ens and firmly adheres. 

jResilvering Mirrors — If mirrors coated 
with amalgam become damaged they 
may sometimes be successfully repaired 
by one of the following processes: 

I.— Place the old mirror in a weak- 
sol ution of nitric acid — say 5 per cent 
which immediately removes the silver. 
Rinse it a little, and then clean very thor- 
oughly with a pledget of cotton-wool ana 
a mixture of whiting and ammonia. 
Rouge will answer in place of whiting, or, 
as a last extreme, finest levigated pumic| 
first applied to a waste fdass to crusfl 



do 



wn any possible grit. ^Thia cleaning 

rt« 4.1- _ . . ° _ ..»W1T1 US 



is of the utmost importance, as upon its 
thoroughness depends eventual s u , cce f , 
' M back, and edges must a» k V? 
a state above suspicion- 



r ront, 
left in 



S3- 

be 
be 



i to U then again flowed with weak acid, 

p - A under the tap, then flowed back 

rlQ ? frnnt with distilled water, and kept 

? nd Irsed in a glass-covered dis> of dis- 

JSSS "ater until the solutions are ready. 

^The depositing vessel is the next con- 

■ji^tion and it should be realized that 
aideratior {n tfae soJutlon 

?K hXty on to the face of the mirror 
£w re cheaper that the glass should be 
spnt to the professional mirror-maker. 
The best plan is to use a glass dish al- 
lowing a ft inch margin all round the 
Kof, ins.de. But such a glass dish is 
expensive, having to be made specially, 
there being no regular sizes near enough 
to 4 x 7 or 8 x- 5 (usual mirror sizes). It 
too lar°-e, a dish must perforce be used, 
the sides or ends of which should be filled 
up with sealing wax. Four strips of glass 
are temporarily bound together with 2 
or 3 turns of string, so as to form a hol- 
low square. The side pieces are i inch 
longer outside, and the end pieces £ inch 
wider than the mirror glass. This frame 
is placed in about the center of the dish, 
moistened with glycerine, and the molten 
wax flowed outside of it to a depth of 
about i of an inch or more. For econ- 
omy's sake, good "parcel wax" may be 
used, but best red sealing wax is safer. 
This wax frame may be used repeatedly, 
being cleaned prior to each silvering 
operation. It is the only special ap- 
pliance necessary, and half an hour is a 
iberal time allowance for making it. 

Use a stock solution of silver nitrate of 
the strength of 25 grains to 1 ounce of 
distilled water: Take 2 drachms of sil- 
ver nitrate stock solution and convert it 
to ammonia nitrate, by adding ammonia 
drop by drop until the precipitate is re- 
dissolved. Add 3$ ounces of distilled 
water. 

In another measure take 80 drops 
(approximately 74 minims) of 40 per cent 
formalin. Pour the solution of amnio- 
nic- nitrate of silver into the measure con- 
taining the formalin, then back into the 
original measure, and finally into the 
dish containing the glass to be silvered. 
This should be done rapidly, and the 
dish containing the mirror well rocked 



E 



■""'I «-<JULiiiuing uitj mirrui wen 

until the silvering is complete, which may 
be ascertained by the precipitation of a 
black, floceulent deposit, and the clearing 



°f the solution. The actual process of 
silvering takes about 2 minutes. 

Cleanliness throughout is of the great- 
est importance. The vessels in which 
the solutions are mixed should be well 
rinsed with a solution of bichromate of 
potash and sulphuric acid, then washed 
out three or four times under the tap, and 



finally with distilled water. For cleana- 
£p *p th f e ? la f for a short tLe fn a 
solution of bichromate of potash to 
wh.ch a little sulphuric acid is added 
The glass is afterwards well rinsed for a 

m - + 1 Ut 5- °X^° under the ^p, flooded 
with distilled, water, and dried with a 
clean linen cloth, A little 
alcohol is then rubbed on \ 
linen handkerchief, which is immediately 
rolled into a pad and used for well polish- 
ing the surface. The cleaning with al- 
cohol is repeated to avoid risk of failure. 

After the mirror has been silveredj 
hold it under the tap and allow water t ' 
flow_over it for about 3 minutes. Rinse 
it with distilled water, and stand it up 
on edge on blotting paper. ^VVhen it i 
quite dry take a pad of very soft wash 
leather, spread a small quantity of fines 
opticians' rouge on a sheet of clean glass 
and well coat the pad with rouge b 
polishing the sheet of glass. A minut 
quantity of rouge is sufficient. Afte_ 
wards polish the mirror by gently rubbin 
the surface with the pad, using a circul 
stroke. 

It will be seen that with this process 
is unnecessary to suspend the mirror i 
the silvering solution, as usually recoir 
mended. The mirror is laid in the dis 
which is a distinct advantage, as th 
progress of the silvering may be watche 
until complete. The film also is mue 
more robust than that obtained by th 
older methods, 

XI — Clean the bare portion of th 
glass by rubbing it gently with fine cot- 
ton, taking care to remove any trace of 
dust and grease. If this cleaning be not 
done very carefully, defects will appear 
around the place repaired. Witt the 
point of a penknife cut upon the back o 
another looldng glass around a ^portion of 

amalgam to where i , was cut o ^ 
knife, and the required F»« ( Q be 
»ow lifted "^^^iSedt part 

sents the same appearance. 

Mouth Mirrors.— By 



Clouding of ™*gi ht iy moistened, 
means of *e finger^Jg «^ nd or kind 
apply a mm of soap of *ny D ^ a 

&2T S^otS * Aror will be a, 



78 



MIRRORS 



mirror 
tion. 



Breathing on 
ness and the 
&^.3..~i£m the <W~ 



, . fl _ ft8 ever. Breatmng u« 



MOLDS 

touch the molten metal in the bott 



letallic 
ns on 



and densest part of 



the 



on — 

the soundest ami r--- ... 

metal The method of working is an 
KSt with bronze and iron, anS bronze 
will be dealt with first. , ^ 

The cast disk of bronze should be 
turned up level on both sides and the 
edges should be turned or shaped up, tne 
metal being about half an inch thick. 
On the side which was at the bottom in 
casting, a line should be drawn to allow 
for working up the border or frame ot 
the mirror, and on the rest of the smooth 
surface the design should be drawn, not 
having too much detail. It is best to 
mark the lines with a sharp scriber, to 
arevent their effacement during working. 
When the disk is marked out, it should 
be laid on a smoothly planed iron block, 
and the lines punched to a depth of about 
I inch, a punch with round edges being 
used. Then the disk should be turned 
down to just below the surface of the 
punched-in metal, and the border or edge 
ormed, finishing smoothly, but without 
burnishing. The back can be turned 
down and, with the outer edge, bur- 
nished; but the inside of the edge and 
the face of the mirror should be polished 
with fine abrasive powder, and finished 
with fine rouge. When dry, the mirror 
will appear equally bright all over; but 

itZ b ,?- °- a the ^ wiU show 

again disappearing as the moisture is 
removed. The metal punched in will be 



pref- 
ace metal iU p3 0 Ua 11 11 ™ usi b e chill- 

least change in ™ ? 8 iv hlS Causes 
as the me&l can be n ? n a J ll( l C ? ntent ' ^ 
it works well TK j e J 101 and fl «id, 
forked out in' hoi, I* ^ lgn must h * 



the mold. If Preferred the design. ma ? 
be cast and ground flat, but this dep en / 
largely on the design The chill patte^ 
should be coated with plumbago, and in 
molding the disk pattern of about $ i Qcn 
in thickness should be laid on a board 
and on this the design—chill— should 
be placed, and the mold should be 
rammed up from the back in the ordinarv 
manner. The casting should be allo Wed 
cold in the mold, and should then 



to get — . — --- V.-.T l V lue * 

be removed and dressed in the usual wav 
It should then be ground bright all over 
on emery wheels_ of successively finer 
grades, and the mirror surface should be 
buffed and polished until a steely mirror 
surface is produced. With a good mot- 
tled iron the chilled design will not show 
until the surface is breathed on or rubbed 
with a greasy rag, but will then show 
clearly. 

MIRROR ALLOYS: 

See Alloys. 

MIRRORS, FROSTED: 

See Glass. 

MIRROR -LETTERING : 
See Lettering. 

MIRROR POLISHES: 
See Polishes. 

MIRRORS, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

MIRRORS. TO PREVENT DIMMING 
OF: 
See Glass. • 

MIRROR VARNISH: 

See Varnishes. 

MITE KILLER: 
See Insecticides. 

MIXING STICKS FOR PAINT: 
See Paint. 

MODELING WAX: 
See Wax, Modeling. 

MOISTURE : 

See Insulation, 



MOLDS: 

See also Casting and Matrix. 
Molding Sand.— A high grade of roold- 
g sand should be fat. i. e., strong*? 



ing atinu snould De tat, l. e., ^rr 0 
mixed with clay. Naturally the molds 
this sand should be employ ctl on 5r„J 
a perfectly dry state. The fat mold"* 
sand is prepared artificially from qua" 
sand <hne sprinkling sand), fat clay. * ree 



MOLDS— MOUNTANTS 



479 



* « Time and ferric oxide (red ocher). 
folding sand is fixed by breaking 
the loose pieces in which it is partly 
aL - next it is passed through a fine sieve 
mixed up to one-third of its volume 
Stk charcoal dust, or, better still, with 
lampblack, which, owing to its looseness 
and fatness, does not detract so much 
from the binding qualities of the sand. 
The utility of the sand may be tested by 
messing the finger into it, whereupon the 
IZ lines of the skin should appear 
Siarply defined; its binding power is 
ascertained by dropping a lump pressed 
Sether with the hand from a leight, 
v liich is increased until it breaks. 



MOLDS OF PLASTER: 

See Plaster. 

MOLES: 

See also Warts. 

Lunar caustic is frequently used to 
remove warts and moles. It should be 
wrapped in tin foil or placed in a quill so 
that it will not toucli the bare flesh. 
Moisten the raised surface and touch 
with the caustic night and morning. 
Successive layers of skin will dry up and 
peel off. When on a level with the sur- 
rounding flesh apply a healing ointment. 
Let the last crust formed drop without 
touching it. Unless carefully done this 
process may leave a white scar. 

A simple remedy for warts consists m 
wetting and rubbing them several times 
a day in a strong solution of common 
washing soda. The electric treatment, 
however, is now the most popular. 



MORDANTS: 

See also Dyes. 

Mordant for Cement Surfaces. — Take 

?reen vitriol and dissolve it in hot water, 
f the cement is rather fresh add 1 part 
of vinegar for each part of green vitriol. 
Best suited, however, is triple vinegar 
(vinegar containing H P er cent °^ acetic 
acid), which is alone sufficient for well- 
dried places. For such surfaces that 
have been smoothed with a steel tool and 
have hardly any pores, take alcohol, 1 
part, and green vitriol, 10 parts, and 
apply this twice until the iron has ac- 
quired a yellowish color. This mordant 
forms a neutral layer between cement 
and paint, and causes the latter to dry 
well. 



Mordant for Gold Size. — A mordant 

for gold size gilding that has been thor- 
oughly tested and found to be often pref- 
erable to the shellae-mixed article, is 
prepared from yolk of egg and glycerine. 
Hie yolk ot an egg is twirled in a cup 
and up to 30 drops of glycerine are added 
to it. .The more glycerine added, the 
longer the mordant will take to dry. Or 
else an equal portion of ordinary syrup 
is mixed with the yolk of egg. Same 
must be thinly liquid. If the mass be- 
comes too tough it is warmed a little or 
thinned with a few drops of warm water. 
A single application is sufficient. Nat- 
urally, this style of gilding is only prac- 
ticable indoors; it cannot withstand, the in- 
fluence of moisture. 

MORTAR, ASBESTOS. 

Asbestos mortar consists of a mixture 
of asbestos with 10 per cent of whitt 
lime. Canadian asbestos is generally 
used, which is composed of 80 per cent 
of asbestos and SO per cent of serpei 
tine. The asbestos is ground and tl 
coarse powder used for the first rougl 
cast, while the finer material is emplovec 
for the second top-plastering. Ihi 
mortar is highly fire-resisting and watei 
proof, is only half as heavy as cemen 
mortar, and "tough enough to admit o 
nails being driven in without breaking it 



MOUNTANTS : 

See also Adhesive and Photography. 

Mounting Drawings, Photos, etc., 
upon Fine Pasteboard.- It frequently 
Salens that the pasteboard will warp 
toward the face of the picture, even if 
fefT in a press till the gluing medium is 
Perfectly dry. This fault can be obvi- 
Sted by moistening the back of the paste- 
board moderately with a «Pf 
while this *fil%?f in § SiSSS 
^t-t^S r^cticable (witn 

fine ciotn is ruuiJ , , ^j-ture is care- 
same direction, and the picture i i* 

t^l ^ S*£££d Cward°m a wide 
bend the pasteboarOD ^ t two 

f miCir ob?ects on5 e table. After a few 
heavy objects^ * is completely dry, 

h T^e W pSure\?own nit anS loa£ pro- 
put the P lC ™ rC p s 0 f large size, 

keeping them bent 



MO 



■UNTANTS — MTUSTAKD PAPER 



Prints on Glass --Take 



MoU ^? n ilatinV"soak % hour in 
ounces of g e £ a " n ' .* „ _/*. ia r, a< 



4 

cold 

5 ?L ge Zce inTglass jar, adding 
W ater; then place i* i g J ^ a ^ 

Sffwarm and dissolve the ge - 

^sh of warm w a ghal _ 

atin. Wh T,i ?he priSts rolled on a 

NBSgfeiMf 

the 



care to 



avoid 
onto 



the corners 
gelatin, using great 

the finer the effect. 

MUD CREAM - COMPLEXION 
CLAY * 

I, Mix well together the *^?g 
4 ounces powdered and silted 

modelling clay 
1 ounce calamine powder 
U ounce of oxide of zinc 
V, ounce of infusorial earth 
7 grains benzoate of soda (rub- 
bed to a fine powder) 
These ingredients are sifted and rub- 
bed to a fine powder in a mortar and 
pestle and worked to make a uniform 
thick paste with the addition of two 
ounces of witch hazel, one ounce of 
glycerine and sufficient water to obtain 
the desired consistency. The container 
should be sealed to avoid contact with 
the air. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE 
MUD PACK: 

Massage the face lightly with cold 
cream and wipe off before applying the 
pack. The pack can be left on the face 
until it has hardened like a mask. Then 
remove it gently with the aid of warm 
water and a soft wash cloth. After this 
>ply gently, a good cold cream to sooth 
ie skin. A face pack can be used about 
three times a week with good results 
II. 

14 > ounces powdered Puller's earth 
6 drachms glycerine 
6 ounces and 6 drachms tincture 
of benzoin 

3 drachms petit grain oil 

4 ounces water 



ill. 



make 



paste) 



(or enough to 



2 pounds Fuller's earth 
1 ounce Kaolin 
} drachm benzoate of soda 
* 0unces distilled water 
10 ounces greaseless cream 
25 drops perfume oil 

Puller's Sadcl ^ 18 °/ F >" T ° *e 



benzoate of soda solution to the PulW, 
earth and Kaolin mixture and if nec B 
sary, add a little more water to make it 
into a thick paste. To this add about y 
as much greaseless cream as you have 
paste and then mix thoroughly. 

IV. 

4 ounces magnesium sulphate 
2 ounces powdered alum 
2 drachms menthol crystals 
28 ounces Kaolin 

4 ounces glycerine 

2 ounces hydrogen peroxide 
Juice from four medium sized 

lemons 
1 pint distilled water 

Dissolve the magnesium sulphate, pow- 
dered alum and menthol crystals in the 
distilled water (heat a little). Mix well 
together the other ingredients. Gradually 
add the first mixture and bring the whole 
to a boil. Remove then from fire and 
add if desired about 25 drops of a per- 
fume oil. If the mixture is too thick it 
can have hot water added to it to thin. 

V. Mix together until they form a 
paste: 

5 teaspoonfuls Fuller's earth 

3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
Cleanse the face either with cold cream 

or warm water, then spread the paste 
evenly over the face, chin and neck and 
let it remain on about fifteen minutes, 
then moisten absorbent cotton in warm 
water and remove the mask. After this 
the face should be gone over with a lump 
of ice held in a clean, white linen hand- 
kerchief. This tonic smoothes out lines, 
also clears and sof tens the skin. 

MUSTACHE FIXING FLUID: 

Balsam of Tolu 1 part 

Rectified spirit 3 parts 

Jockey club 1 P art 

Dissolve the balsam in the liquids. 
Apply a few drops to the mustache with 
a brush, then twist into the desired shape. 

MUSTARD PAPER: 

I.— India rubber 1 part 

Benzol 49 parts 

Black mustard in powder, a 
sufficiency. 
Dissolve the India rubber in the ben- 
zol, then stir in the mustard until tm 
mixture is of a suitable consistence tor 
spreading. It was further recommence 
to remove the fixed oil from the mustai" 
by percolation with benzol. Mustaru 
paper thus made is of good quality, verj 
active, and keeps well. 




MUSTARD PAPER— NICKEL TESTING 



481 



II.- 



-Black and white 
mustard, in No. 
60 powder, de- 
prived of fixed oil . 1 part 
Benzol solution of 
India rubber (1 in 

40) * P arts 

Mix to a smooth mass, and spread the 
4 ftme over one side of a suitable paper by 
mZus of a piaster-spreading machine, 
Massing the paper over the mass con- 
SSd n a suitable shallow vessel Ex- 
pose to warm air for a short time to dry 
Preserve the dry paper in well-closed 
£££ It may be useful to know that 
Sard paper, after spreading, should 
not be long exposed to light and air. By 
S doing not only do* the mustard 
bleach but the rubber soon perishes. 
Moreover, mustard paper is hygroscopic, 
so that in a moist atmosphere it soon 
loses its virtue. It is therefore highly 
important that mustard paper should be 
rapidly dried in a warm atmosphere with 
free ventilation, then at once stored m 
well-closed packets. Thus prepared 
they keep well and remain active for 
many years. 

MUSTARDS : 

See Condiments. 

MYRRH ASTRINGENT: 

See Dentifrices. 

HAIL, INGROWING. 

Copious applications of dried pow- 
dered alum are sufficient to cure every 
case of ingrowing nail in about 5 _ days. 
The applications are not painful m tbe 
least, and the destruction of the patho- 
logic tissue results in the formation ot a 
hard, resistant, and non-sensitive bed 
for the nail, a perfect cure for the in- 
growing tendency. Apply a fomenta- 
tion of soap and water for 24 hours be- 
forehand and then pour the alum into 
the space between the nail and its bed, 
tamponing with cotton to keep the alum 
in place, and repeating the application 
daily. The suppuration rapidly dries 
up, and pain and discomfort are relieved 
almost at once. 

NAIL POLISHES: 

See Cosmetics. 

NAPOLEON CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

NAPHTHOL SOAP: 

Sec Soap. 

NEATSFOOT OIL. 

Crude neatsfoot oil 5,000 parts 

Alcohol, 90 per cent 2,500 parts 

Tannin 5 P arts 



Place in a clearing flask, agitate vigor- 
ously and allow to stand for 8 days in a 
warm room with daily repetition of the 
shaking. Then draw off the spirit of 
wine on top, rinse again with 1,000 parts 
of spirit of wine (90 per cent) and place 
the oil in a temperature of about 53^° F. 
Allow to stand in this temperature for at 
least 6 weeks, protected from the light, 
and then filter. 

NEEDLES, ANTI-RUST PAPER FOR: 

See Rust Preventives, 

NEGATIVES, HOW TO USE SPOILED: 

See Photography. 

NERVE PASTE: 

See also Dental Cements, under Ce- 
ments. 

Arsenious aeid 4 parts 

Morphine sulphate. . . 2 parts 

Clove oil 1 part 

Creosote, quantity sufficient to mak 
a paste. 

After the nerve is destroyed the fol 
lowing paste is to be put in the cavity; 

Alum 1 Part 

Thymol 1 part 

Zinc oxide 1 part 

Glycerine 1 part 

NERVINE OINTMENT: 

See Ointments. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING: 

See Ice Creams. 

NETS: 

See Cordage. 



NICKEL-TESTING. 

Pure nickel will remain nearly whi 
while "patent nickel,", or nxckeUop 
will not retain its P^^^idized a 
but soon b^^^^Slii 
grayish in color 1 he m g 
a good means of tesbng- * ^ 
terated nickel s a „ ove d 
magnetism, wnne ^" a \ 
destitute of this property. 

NICKEL ALLOYS: 

Jc££°™ REMOVE RHST FROM 
M S?C<™ine Preparations and M 

NICOTINE STAINS, TO REMOV 
FROM HANDS. 

Hydrogen peroxide 

20 per cent. *™ g 

Distilled water .... « 
Alcoholic solution, ^ 

ammonia < s 



OILS 



pine needle oil jounce 

Add the pine needle oil toil, , — a 
Nation and shake Add to wag ^ 
LrjTSSa ^bottles with * 



» label When storing, keep 

sarSd'S* p.a C e to 

Strength. Blue or amber bottles can u 
sed. 



.30 grains 



Obesity Treatment.— 

Precipitated Carbon- 

Carbonate of Magae-^^ 
S drachms 



ell. 
i 



sia ••• 

Phosphate of Soda. 

Mix these ingredients together w 
a his mixture can be taken three timet, 
day one teaspoonful in a glass of water. 

Oils 

Clock Oil— Put 2,000 parts, by weight, 
of virgin oil in a decanting vessel, add a 
solution of 40 parts of ether tannin in 
400 parts of water and shake until com- 
pletely emulsified. Let stand for 8 days, 
with frequent shaking; next, add 100 
jarts of talcum and, when this has also 
seen well shaken, 1,600 parts of water. 
Allow to settle for 24 hours, and then run 
off the lower water layer, repeating the 
washing as long as the wash water still 
shows a coloration with ferric chloride. 
Tout the contents of the decanting vessel 
into an evaporating dish; then add 200 
Jarts of thoroughly dried and finelv 
jround cooking salt; let stand for 24 
lours and filter through paper. The 
clock oil is now ready, and should be 
Wied in brown glass bottles, holding 20 
to °o parts (about 1 ounce), which must 
be corked up well and kept at a cool 
temperature. 

COD -LIVER OIL: 

Aromatic Cod-Liver Oil. . 

Coumarin. 
Saccharine 



0.01 



oaccnarme 0 .50 

Vanilhn q jq 

Alcohol, absolute" 5.40 

Xj °f Ie mon 5i0Q 

Ui ot peppermint 

of neroli 

Cod-liver 



1.00 
1.00 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
part 
part 



oil to make 1,000 parts 



Deodorized Cod-T ixraw rvi 
parts of cod-liver n f er Oil— Mix 400 

ground coffee and 10 P arts of 

warm the mixture hT^ ° f bone bla <*, 
1« Q P.. let it s "„ e H ?A™°Z™ to 



sionally, and strain through linen, 
ail acquires the taste of coffee. 

Cod-Liver Oil Emulsions. — 
X. Calcium hypo- 
phosphite SO grains 

Sodium hypophos- 

phite ■ ■ • - 120 grains 

Sodium chloride . . 60 grains 
Gum acacia, in 

powder 2 ounces 

Elixir of glucoside 20 minims 
Essential oil of al- 
monds 15 minims 

Glycerine. 2 fluidounces 

Cod-liver oil 8 fluidounces 

Distilled water, a sufficient quan' 
tity to produce 16 fluidounces. 
II, — Mix 190 parts of powdered sugar 
with 5 parts of acacia and 500 parts 
of tragacanth in a mortar. Mix in a 
large bottle and shake _ thoroughly to- 
gether 500 parts of cod-liver oil and 200 
parts of a cold infusion of coiTee. Grad- 
ually add a part of this mixture to the 
powder in the mortar and triturate until 
emulsified. To the remaining liquid 
mixture add 100 parts of rum, then 
gradually incorporate with, the contents 
of the mortar by trituration. 

Extracting Oil from Cottonseed. — 
Claim is made for a process of extraction, 
in an English patent, in which the seeds 
are placed m a rotable vessel mounted 
on a hollow shaft divided into compart- 
ments by means of a partition. The sol- 
vent is introduced at one end of this 
shaft and passes into the vessel, which is 
then made to rotate. After the extrac- 
tion the bulk of the solvent and the ex- 
tracted oil pass away through an exit 
pipe, and steam is then introduced 
through the same opening as the solvent, 
in order to cook the seeds and expel the 
residual solvent. The steam and_ the 
vapors pass through perforations in a 
scraper fixed to the shaft and thence 
through connected pipes into the other 
compartment of the shaft, the end of 
which is attached to a condenser. 

, Silver Nitrate Test for Cottonseed 
Oil. — Investigations of Charabout and 
March throw some light on the value ot 
this test in presence of olive oil. 
free-fat acids obtained from cottonseed 
oil by saponification were treated in ac- 
cordance with the method of MiHiau. 0 * 
a water bath with a 3 per cent solution 



of silver nitrate, and the brown precip 



tate thus formed subjected to a ehemm 
examination. It was found to consist 
chiefly of a brown silver salt comp° sed f 
a tat acid melting at 52° F.„ and congeal 



. *QQC to 122° F., and of sulphide of place, 
ingat 0 j ive Q ji ( which contains a sul- 
XT'compound of an analogous com- 
P ■linn is also capable of forming a 
p 1 nr less distinct precipitate of a dark 
m ?fLd silver sulphide with nitrate of 
c .f; r ft is important to bear this fact 
in mind when examining olive oil for 
cottonseed oil. 
Floral Hair Oil- 
White vaseline 5,000 parts 

Floricin, pure 800 parts 

Linalool rose 60 parts 

Terpineol 50 parts 

Aubeptne (haw- 

thorne), liquid.. . 12 parts 

Floral Hair Pomade. — 

White ceresine 250 parts 

Floricin, pure.. 1,6*00 parts 

Vanillin..-. 3 parts 

Geranium oil 5 parts 

Isoeugenol 4 parts 

Floricin Brilliantine. — 

Floricin oil 2.-100 parts 

White ceresine 250 parts 

YUng-ylang oil 2 parts 

Kananga oil 5 parts 

Oil of rose, artificial 1 part 

Cheirantia 5 parts 

Solid Linseed Oil. — Cements for the 
manufacture of linoleum and other sim- 
ilar substances are composed to a large 
extent of linseed oil, oxidized or Poly- 
merized until it has become solid. The 
old process of preparing this solid oil is 
tedious, costly, and invites danger from 
fire. It consists in running linseed oil 
over sheets of thin cloth hung from the 
top of a high building. The thin layer 
of oil upon the cloth dries, and then a 
second layer is obtained in the same way. 
This is continued until a thick skin of 
solid oil is formed on either side of the 
cloth. A new method of solidifying lin- 
seed oil is by means of alkalies^ The 
drying oils, when heated with basic sub- 
stances such as the alkalies, polymerize 
and become solid. Hertkorn makes use 
of the oxides of the alkaline earths, or 
their salts with weak acids, such as their 
soaps. When chalk or lime is added to 
the oil during the process of oxidation, 
either during the liquid or the plastic 
stage, it forms a calcium soap, and causes 
polymerization to set in in the partially 
oxidized oil. Similarly, if caustic soda 
or caustic potash be added, the action is 
not caused by them in the free state, but 
by the soaps which they form. Oxidized 
oil is more readily saponified than raw 
oil, and the greater the oxidation, the 
more readily does saponification take 



iu t UC w earner, 

..... _ „„„ by rain and moisture, 

owing to the soluble soap contained in it, 
while a cement made with lime will not 
be acted upon. It is suggested that the 
action of the bases on linseed oil is simply 
due to their neutralization of the free acia. 
The acidity of_ linseed oil increases as 
it becomes oxidized. When the baric 
matter is added part of the free acid is 
neutralized, and polymerization sets inv 
The presence of a laTge amount of free 
acid must therefore hinder polymeriza- 
tion. From 5 to 10 per cent of chalk or 
lime is considered to be the amount 
which gives the best result in practice. 

Decolorizing or Bleaching Linseed 
Oil. — Linseed oil may be bleached by the 
aid of chemical bodies, the process of 
oxidizing or bleaching being best per- 
formed by means of peroxide of hydro- 
gen. For this purpose, the linseed oil 
to be bleached is mixed with 5 per cent 
peroxide of hydrogen in a tin or glass 
bottle, and the mixture is shaken re- 
peatedly. After a few days have elapsed 
the linseed oil is entirely bleached and 
clarified, so that it can be poured off 
from the peroxide of hydrogen, which 
has been reduced to oxide of hydrogen, 
i. e., water, by the process of oxidation. 
The use of another oxidizing medium, 
such as chloride of lime and hydro, 
chloric acid or bichromate of calcium 
and sulphuric acid, etc., cannot be rec- 
ommenced to the layman ¥ *he opg- 
ation requires more care and is not with- 
out danger. If there is no hurry about 
?hc preparation of bleached linseed oil 
sun bleaching seems to b . the most 
recommendab e method. For this oniv 
a class bottle is required, or, heUer^tm, 



a glass bome is ^4 U "-. ~> whic h can 
a Sat glass > dish, o : any w J iecB of 

be covered with a protrud J P 
glass. Ipr tne » ^ d t an( j 

tome sticks £™&°7$£ & the layer 
the glass on top e The Uun ^ ^ ^ 
of linseed oil, the quick ^ neceg . 

dation Process. « j h a man ner 

sary to place the vess ei ^ gun 

that it is e*P ofle l«L 7 
for many hours daily- 

. n;1 for Varnish -Making- 
Linseed 011 ;f 50 gallons Baltic 
Heat in a copper vessel y calcill ed 
oil to 280° K add ft* pojm 
white vitriol, and s ^ temperature 
Keep the oil at the aoov £ and 
^L a Vour h s 0 deetTrhe clear oil. It 
Somd stand for at least* week. 



484 

%ld draw off the water. Let the mix- 
re settle for a few weeks. 

JNERAL OIL : 

See also Petroleum. 
Production of Consistent Mineral 

)i3s By weight 

L— Mineral oil.. 100 parts 

Linseed oil 25 parts 

Ground nut oil 25 parts 

Lime 10 P arts 

II.— Mineral oil 100 parts 

Rosin oil 1°0 P arts 

Eape seed oil 50 parts 

Linseed oil 75 parts 

Lime 25 parts 

Mixing Castor Oil with Mineral Oils, — 
Castor ofl is heated for 6 hours in an auto- 
clave at a temperature of 500° to 575° F., 
md under a pressure of 4 to 6 atmos- 
pheres. When cold the resulting product 
lixes in all proportions with mineral oils. 

JLEACHIWG OILS: 

Linseed Oil or Poppy Oil. — Agitate in 
glass balloon 25,000 parts, by weight, 
f oil with a solution of 50 parts, by 
reight, potassium permanganate in 
1,250 parts, by volume, of water. Let 
stand for 24 hours at a gentle warmth 
and add 75 parts, by weight, of pow- 
dered sodium sulphite. Agitate strongly 
and add 100 parts, by weight, of hydro- 
chloric acid and again agitate. Let 
stand until decolorization takes place 
then wash the oil with a sufficiency of 
rater, carrying in suspension chalk 
powdered, until the liquid no 
longer has an acid reaction. Finally 
ter off over anhydrous sodium sulphate 
Boiled Oil.— The following is esoe- 
cially adapted for zinc painthfg, hut £5 
b t Pai ? t: Mi* 1 pari 

SHutl? 11 ^ in coarse p°w- 

Wed oS 1? y * - Wlth 10 P arts ™t or 

fiSiW4d p fo l SKteS? and 

until fhn ™i u • auout do hours, or 
until the oil begins to turn reddish. 



OILS 



British Oil. 

3- Oil of turpentine, 
■oarbadoes pitch. 



Oil of 
Oil of 



rosemary i 



40 parts 
26 parts 



origanum . , , 



part 



1 part 



II. Oil of turpentine 2 parts 

Rape oil 20 parts 

Spirit of tar 2 parts 

Ahkanet root, quantity sufficient. 
Macerate the alkanet root in the rape 
oil until the latter is colored deep red; 
then strain ofl and add the other ingre- 
dients. 

Decolorizing and Deodorizing Oils 

I. — One may partially or completely 
deodorize and decolorize rank fish and 
other oils by sending a current of hot air 
or of steam through them, after having 
heated them from 175° to 200° F. To 
decolorize palm oil pass through it a 
current of steam under pressure corre- 
sponding to a temperature of 230° p., 
agitating the oil constantly. The vapor 
is then passed through leaden tuyeres of 
about 2 inches diameter, 10 hours being 
sufficient for deodorizing 4 tons of oil. 

II. — Another method that may he ap- 
plied to almost all kinds of fats and oils 
with excellent results is the following: 
Melt say 112 parts, by weight, of palm 
oil in a boiler. When the mass is en- 
tirely liquefied add to it a solution of cal- 
cium chloride, made by dissolving 7 
parts, by weight, of lime chloride for 
every 84 parts, by weight, of oil in water, 
and mix intimately. After cooling, the 
mass hardens and is cut into small bits 
and exposed to the air for a few weeks, 
iifter this exposure the material is re- 
assembled in a boiler of iron, jacketed 
on the inside with lead; a quantity of sul- 
phuric acid diluted to 5 per cent, equal in 
amount to the lime chloride previously 
used, is added, and heat is applied until 
the oil melts and separates from the 
other substances. It is then left to cool 
off and solidify. 

Decomposition of Oils, Fats, etc. — 
In many of the processes at present in 
use, whereby oils and fats are decom- 
posed by steam at a high pressure, the 
time during which the oil or fat has to 
be exposed to high pressure and tem- 
perature has the effect of considerably 
darkening the resulting product. Han- 
nig's^ process claims to shorten the time 
required, by bringing the steam and ml 
into more intimate contact. The oil to 
be treated is projected in fine streams 
into the chamber containing steam at 8 
to 10 atmospheres pressure. The streams 
of oil are projected with sufficient force 
to cause them to strike against the walls 
of the chamber, and they are thus broken 
up into minute globules which mix inti- 
mately with the steam. In this way tne 
most satisfactory conditions for the de- 
composition of the oil are obtained. 



OILS 



485 



Driffield Oils— 

Barbadoestar I ounce 

Linseed oil 16 ounces 

Oil turpentine 3 ounces 

Oil vitriol 4 ounce 

Add the oil of vitriol to the other in- 
gredients very gradually, with constant 
stirring. 

Drving Oils.— To dry oils for varnishes, 
Ir.tJnfr? etc., the most economical 
SffiEto bol them with shot to leave 
them for some time m contact with 
hot or else to boil them with lith- 
arge Another method consists in boil- 
in^ the oils with equal parts of lead, tin, 
and sulphate of zinc in the ratio of to 
nart (weight) of the united inelals to 1 
Dart of oil to be treated. These metuls 
must be granulated, which is easily ac- 
complished by melting them separately 
and putting them in cold water. Ihey 
will be found at the bottom of the water 
in the shape of small balls. It is m this 
manner, by the way, that shot is pro- 
duced. 

Dust-Laying Oil. — A process has been 
patented for rendering mineral oils mis- 
cible in all proportions of water. The 
method consists of forming an intimate 
mixture of the oil with a soap which is 
soluble in water. The most simple 
method is as follows: The oil is placed 
in a tank provided with an agitator. The 
latter is set in motion and the fatty oil or 
free fatty acid from which the soap is to 
be formed is added, and mixed inti- 
mately with the mineral oil. When the 
mixture is seen to be thoroughly homo- 
geneous, the alkali, in solution in water, 
is added little by little and the stirring 
continued until a thorough emulsion is 
obtained, of which the constituents do 
not separate, even after prolonged stand- 
ing at ordinary temperatures. The 
agitation may be produced either by a, 
mechanical apparatus or by forcing air 
in under pressure. As a rule, the oper- 
ation can be carried out in the cold, but 
in certain cases the solution of the fatty 
body and its saponification requires 
the application of moderate heat. This 
faay be obtained by using either a steam- 
jacketed pan, or by having the steam 
coil within the pan, or live steam may 
he blown through the mixture, serving at 
the same time both as a heating and 
stirring agent. Any fatty matter or 
fatty acid suitable for soap-making may 
be used, and the base may be any one 
capable of forming a soluble soap, most 
commonly the alkaline hydroxides, 
caustic soda, and caustic potash, as also 



ammonia. Th< 



-Je raw materials are chos- 
en according to the use to which the fin- 
ished product is to be applied. A good 
formula suitable for preparing an oily 
liquid for watering dusty roads, is as 
follows: 



Heavy mineral oil , 
Commercial olein, . . , 
Commercial ammonia 



By weight 

75 parts 

2 parts 

Commercial ammonia 1.5 parts 

Water 21.5 parts 

Floor Oils.— 

I. — Neatsfoot oil 1 part 

Cottonseed oil 1 p ar t 

Petroleum oil". 1 p ar t 

II. — Beeswax 8 parts 

Water. 56 parts 

Potassium carbonate 4 parts 
Dissolve the potash in 12 parts of 
water; heat together the wax and the re- 
maining water till the wax is liquefied; 
then mix the two and boil together until 
a perfect emulsion is effected. Color, if 
desired, with a solution of annatto. 

Ground-Laying Oil for Ceramics. — Boil 
together until thoroughly incorporated 
1 pint of linseed oil, 1 pint of dissolved 
gum mastic, £ ounce of red lead, £ ounce 
of rosin. In using mix with Venice 
turpentine. 

Oil Suitable for Use with Gold —Heat' 
and incorporate linseed oil, 1 quart; rape 
oil, 1 pint; Canadian balsam, 3 pints; 
rectified spirits of tar, 1 quart. 

Wool Oil. — These are usually pro- 
duced by the distillation in retorts of 
Yorkshire grease and other greases. Ihe 
distilled oil is tested for quality, and is 
brought down to 70 per cent or 60 per 
cent grades by the addition of a suitable 
quantity of mineral oil. The lower he 
quality of the grease used the lower is the 
grade of the resulting wool oil. 



OIL, CASTOR: 

See Castor Oil. 
OIL FOR FORMING A 
LIQUORS : 



OILS FOR HARNESS: 

See Leather. 
OILS (EDIBLE), TESTS FOR 

See Foods. 
OIL, HOW TO POUR OUT: 

See Castor Oil. 
OIL, LUBRICATING; 
See Lubricants. 



BEAD ON 



486 

0I& OF WINTERGREEN, SYN- 
THETIC: callcvlic acid in 
jS c.c. of methyl ai -onoi rfc acld . 

3 5 grams of c ° nCen ^i v un til the two 
Shale test tube j^^^t gently 
separate layers have nnxe . ^ ^ 

fo? twenty b t separated by the 

will appear that ^7 *J °P fa used in 
use of a separatory funnel, 
flavoring candies, etc. 

OILSKINS : 

See Waterproofing. 

^gSK&P™*»» and Meth- 
ods. 

OIL, SOLIDIFIED : 

See Lubricants. 

Ointments 

Arnica Salve. — 

Solid extract of arnica 2 parts 
Rosin ointment. ..... 16 parts 

Petrolatum..... 4 parts 

Sultanas 16 parts 

Fine cut tobacco 1 part 

Boil the raisins and the tobacco in 40 
ounces of water until exhausted, express 
the liquid, and evaporate down to 8 
ounces. Soften the arnica extract in a 
little hot water and mix in the liquid. 
Melt the rosin ointment and petrolatum 
together, and add the liquid to the melted 
mass and incorporate thoroughly. 

Barbers' Itch. — 

Ichthyol 30 grains 

Salicylic acid 12 grains 

Mercury oleate (10 

percent). 3 drachms 

Lanolin i ounce 

ix. To be kept constantly applied 
;o the affected parts. 

Brown Ointment. — 

Rosin i 

Lead plaster 4 

Soap cerate 8 

Yellow beeswax. .. . I „„,„,. 

^I 1 /? 011 nfluidounc 

Chilblains.— The folio 
unbroken chilblains: 

'■^SuIpWous acid 3 p arts 

Glycerine. . . i 
Water 1 

*L — Balaam P 
Alcohol. 

Hydrochloric acid.'.' 
tincture benzoin 
compound g 



OILS — OINTMENTS 



ounce 
ounces 
ounces 
ounce 



eru. 



>wmg are 



part 
1 part 

1 part 
24 parts 
1 part 



es 
for 



parts 



Dissolve the balsam m the alcohol 
and add the acid and tincture. Applv 
morning and evening. ** ? 

Domestic Ointments. — 

J. — Vaseline - - . 80 parts 

Diachylon oint- 
ment 30 parts 

Carbolic acid 4 parts 

Camphor 5 parts 

II — Butter, fresh (un- 

salted) 750 

parts 

Wax, yellow 125 parts 

Rosin, white 100 parts 

Nutmeg oil 15 parts 

Peru balsam 1 part 

III. — Lead plaster, sim- 
ple 6,090 parts 

Vaseline, yellow . . 1,000 parts 

Camphor.. 65 parts 

Carbolic acid 50 parts 

Mix. 

Green Salve. — 

White pine turpentine 8 ounces 

Lard, fresh Bounces 

Honey 4 ounces 

Beeswax, yellow 4 ounces 

Melt, stir well, and add 

Verdigris, powdered. . 4 drachms 

Apply locally. 

This cannot be surpassed when used 
for deep wounds, as it prevents the 
formation of proud flesh and keeps up a 
healthy discharge. 

Salve for all Wounds. — 

Lard, fresh 16 ounces 

White lead, dry . . 3 ounces 

Red lead, dry 1 ounce 

Beeswax, yellow 3 ounces 

Black rosin g ounces 

Mix, melt, and boil for 45 minutes, 
then add 

Common turpentine. , . A ounces 

Boil for 3 minutes and cool. 

Apply locally to cuts, burns, sores, 
ulcers, etc. It first draws, then 

Irritating Plaster. — 

Tar, purified 16 ounces 

Burgundy pitch 

White pine turpentine 
Rosin, common 

Melt and add 

Mandrake root, pow- 
dered 

Bl 

oodroot, powdered. 
Poke root, powdered . . 
Indian turnip root, 

powdered 

Apply to the skin in the 



heals. 



1 ounce 

1 ounce 

2 ounces 



dracb© 

ounce 

ounce 



1 ounce 
form ° f 8 



OINTMENTS 



4f 



p,aster (spread on muslin) and renew it 

da This sa l v e will raise a sore which is to 

, Wined with a dry cloth to remove mat- 
te wiped mu; , t nQt be wetted> 

This is a powerful counter-irritant for re- 
moving internal pains, and in other cases 
where an irritating plaster is necessary. 

Mercury Salves.-l.-Red Salve —Red 
mercury oxide, 1 part; melted lard, 

9 Tt^White Salve.— Mercury precipi- 
tate, 1 part; melted lard, 9 parts. 

Pink salve. 

4mmoniated mer- 
cury .• • ■ • 1 ounce 

Mercuric oxide, 

precipitated %h ounces 

Red mercuric sul- 
phide (vermilion) 60 crams 

Perfume 4 rluidounce 

L arc ] H pounds 

Prepared suet £ pound 

Antiseptic Nervine Ointment. — 

Iodoform 2 parts 

Salol 4 parts 

Boric acid 5 parts 

Antipyrine 5 parts 

Vaseline. SO parts 

Photographers' Ointment. — The fol- 
lowing protects the hands from photo- 
graphic chemicals: 

Best castile soap, in 

fine shavings. ..... 1 ounce 

Water 1 ounce 

Wax 1 ounce 

Ammonia 45 minims 

Lanolin 1 ounce 

The soap is dissolved in the water 
heated for that purpose, the wax mixed 
in with much stirring, and, when all is in 
solution, the ammonia is added. When 
clear, the lanolin is put in, and then, if 
the mixture is very thick, water is added 
until the whole has the consistency of 
honey. Keep in a covered stoneware 
jar. The hands should be first washed 
with ordinary soap, and then, while the 
lather is still on them, a hit of the mixture 
about the size of a hazel nut is rubbed in 
until all is absorbed, and the hands are 
dry. At the close of the work, the film 
of wax is washed off in warm water and 
a little lpnolin rubbed into the hands. 



Pain -Subduing Ointment. — The fol- 
lowing is an excellent formula: 

Tincture of capsicum. 5 parts 
Tincture of camphor . 1 part 

Ammonia water 2 parts 

Alcohol 2 parts 

Soap liniment. ...... 2 parts 



Skin Ointment.— I.— Add about 2 per 
cent ot phenol to petrolatum, perfuming 
it with oil of bergamot and color a dull 
green. It has been suggested that a 
mixture of Prussian blue and yellow 
ocher would answer as the coloring 
agent. 

II. — Phenol 40 grains 

Boric acid 2 drachms 

Oil of bergamot 90 minims 

Petrolatum 1 pound 

Color with chlorophyll. 

Alum Ointment— 

1 drachm alum powdered very 
fine 

iy s ounce lard 
Mix together thoroughly. A very good 
ointment for piles. 

Carbolic Salve. — 

1 fluid drachm carbolic acid 

3 ounces lard 
Melt the lard at a gentle heat, add the 
carbolic acid and triturate until the mix- 
ture is cold. 

Nipple Ointment. — 

6 drachms white wax 
80 grams oil sweet almonds 
40 grams clarified honey 
25 grams balsam peru 

Zinc Ointment. — 

1 ounce oxide of zinc 

6 ounces lard 
Mix together, and can be used for 
bums, excoriations, and skin diseases at- 
tended by discharges. 

ORANGE PHOSPHATE: 

See Beverages. 

ORGEAT PUNCH: 

Set Beverages, under Lemonades. 

ORTOL DEVELOPER: 

See Photography. 

tffi* Plating. Pacing. 

OXIDE, MAGNETIC: 
gee Rust Preventives. 

OXOLIN : 
See Rubber. 

OZONATINE: . 

See Air Purifying. 

PACKAGE POP : . AIe . 

See Beverages, under tri"K« 

PACKAGE WAX: 
See Waxes. 



488 



PACKINGS — PAINTINGS 



PACKINGS: 
Packing for Stuffing Boxes.— 

rr ■ 1 1 10 P arts 

^d^nonimed 30 parts 

Cylinder oil ■ • 10 P arts 

Talcum Venetian, 

finely powdered. ... 20 P»™ 
Graphite, finely 

washed " r . 

Powdered asbestos. . . t> P arts 
Melt the tallow and barrel soap to- 
other add the other materia s in rota- 
ESf mfx intimately in a mixing ma- 
chine, and fill in 4-pound cans. 

Packing for Gasoline Pumps.— For 
packing pumps on gasoline engi nes use 
Lbestos wick-packmg rubbedf full of 
regular laundry soap; it will work with- 
out undue friction and will pack tightly. 
Common rubber packing is not as good, 
as the gasoline cuts it out. 

PADS OF PAPER: 
, See Paper Pads. 

>AIN-SUBDUING OINTMENT: 

See Ointments. 

PAINTING PROCESSES ; 

Painting Ornaments or Letters on 
Cloth and Paper. — Dissolve gum shellac 
in 95 per cent alcohol at the rate of 1 
pound of shellac to 3 pints of alcohol, and 
mix with it any dry color desired. If 
it becomes too thick, thin with more 
alcohol. This works free, does not 
bleed out, imparts brilliancy to the color, 
and wears well. The preparation can 
be used also on paper. 

Painting on Marble.— To paint marble 
in water colors, it must be first thor- 
oughly cleaned and all grease com- 
pletely removed. The slab is washed 
well, and then rubbed off with benzine 
by means of a rag or sponge. In order 
to be quite sure, add a little ox gall or 
aguolme to the colors. After rnarEle has 

ht » f-T^ Wlth Water colors ^ cannot 
be polished any more. 

Painting on Muslin.— To paint on 
?SS,Eh quir |f COnsid - a ble skSl Select 
taJHu I ^J titio ^ ^on which 
taut anl 6^%/^^ the fabric 
of starch Trut' 7 eEL ^ ke a s °lution 
Btarch t three fcjTl ^fourth 

against the striki™ 1? 7 + u T ? gUard 
to hold it m! ?! g m , °. f the Pamt, and 
toe.mii tK 5 secu : e 'y ^ place and tex- 
to tCcS^^tw.thrubbingvarnish 

*g condition I P ^ ntl i n i e to L a free work - 
1 A doub le thick cameiV 



hair brush, of a width to correspond 
properly with the size of the surface to be 
coated, is the best tool with which to coat 
fine muslin- A fitch- hair tool is pvnh- 
ably best suited to the coarser muslin 
Many painters, when about to letter oii 
muslin, wet the material with water; but 
this method is not so reliable as sizing 
with starch and water. Wetting canvas 
or duck operates very successfully i n 
holding the paint or color in check, but 
these materials should not be confounded 
with muslin, which is of an entirely dif- 
ferent texture. 

PAINTING ON LEATHER: 

See Leather. 

PAINTINGS : 

Protection for Oil Paintings. — Oil 
paintings should under no circumstances 
be varnished over before the colors are 
surely and unmistakably dry, otherwise 
the Assuring and early decay of the sur- 
face may be anticipated. The conten- 
tion of some people that oil paintings 
need the protection of a coat of varnish 
is based upon the claim that the picture, 
unvarnished, looks dead and lusterless 
in parts and glossy in still others, the 
value and real beauty of the color being 
thus unequally manifested. It is not to 
be inferred, however, that a heavy coat- 
ing of varnish is required. When it is 
deemed advisable to varnish over an oil 
painting the varnish should be mastic, 
with perhaps 3 or 4 drops of refined lin- 
seed oil added to insure against cracking. 
A heavy body of varnish used oyer 
paintings must be strictly prohibited, in- 
asmuch as the varnish, as it grows in 
age, naturally darkens in color, and in so 
doing carries with it a decided clouding 
and discoloration of the delicate pig- 
ments, A thinly applied coat of mastic 
varnish affords the required protection 
from all sorts and conditions of atmos- 
pheric impurities, besides fulfilling its 
mission in other directions. 

Oil paintings, aquarelles, etc., may 
also coated with a thin layer of Canada 
balsam, and placed smoothly on a pane 
of glass likewise coated with Canada 
balsam, so that both layers of balsam 
come together. Then the pictures are 
pressed down from the back, to rem^ e 
all air bubbles. 

To Renovate Old Oil Paintings.— 
When old oil paintings have becom. 
dark and cracked, proceed as f° n °Y' 
Pour alcohol in a dish and put the p«- 
ture over it, face downward. The fiim* 
of the alcohol dissolve the paint of 
picture, the fissures close up again, 



PAINTINGS— PAINTS 



489 



color assumes a freshness which is 
th Sine Great caution is absolutely 
SUr ^Vrv and one must look at the pamt- 
? vcrv often, otherwise it may happen 
£|t the colors will run together or even 
run off in drops. 



Drab. 



reparation and Meth- 



PAINTINGS, TO CLEAN 

r g ee Cleaning Preparatu 

ods, 

Paints 

fG.ee also Acid-ProoSng, Ceramics, 
Enamels, Fireproofing Glazing, Painting 
Process-' Pigments, Rust Preventives, 
Varnishes, and Waterproofing.) 

PAINT BASES; 

Pry Bases for Paints. — The following 
colors and minerals, mixed in the pro- 
portions given and then ground to fine 
powder, make excellent dry paints and 
may be thinned with turpentine oil, and 
a small percentage of cheap varnish to 
consistency required. 

Buff.— 

Yellow ocher .... 44 pounds 

Whiting 6 pounds 

Oxide of zinc 5 pounds 

Plaster of Paris J pound 

Brick Brown. — 

Yellow ocher 26 pounds 

Calcined copperas 4 pounds 

Red hematite. Impounds 

Best silica 7 pounds 

Whiting 18 pounds 

Gray. — 

Oxide of zinc SO pounds 

White lead 6 pounds 

Whiting 12 pounds 

Bone black i pound 

Yellow ocher 2 pounds 

Crimson. — 

Indian red 25 pounds 

Crocus martis 7 pounds 

Oxide of zinc 6 pounds 

Whiting 6 pounds 

Vandyke Brown. — 

Yellow ocher. . , 25 pounds 

Whiting 18 pounds 

Umber 4 pounds 

Oxide of zinc 7 pounds 

Purple oxide of iron . . 1 pound 

Blood Red. — 

Crocus martis 30 pounds 

Whiting 20 pounds 

Hematite. .......... 3 pounds 

Silica. 6 pounds 

Venetian red 2 pounds 



Yellow ocher 40 pounds 

Whiting iq 

Oxide of zinc 84 

Sulphate of barytes.. . 1 



pounds 
pounds 
pound 



pound 
gallon 



Paint for Blackboards. 

Shellac \ 

Alcohol . . , , \ 

Lampblack (fine 

quality) 4 ounces 

Powdered emery 4 ounces 

Ultramarine blue .... 4 ounces 
Dissolve the shellac in the alcohol. 
Place the lampblack, emery, and ultra- 
marine blue on a cheese-cloth strainer, 
pour on part of the shellac solution, 
stirring constantly and gradually adding 
the solution until all of the powders have 
passed through the strainer. 

Dark-Green Paint for Blackboards. — 

Mix 1 part Prussian blue and 1 part 
chrome green with equal parts of 
gilders' size and alcohol to a thin cream 
consistency. Apply with a large, stiff 
brush and after an hour a second coat is 
given. After 24 to 48 hours smooth the 
surface with a felt cloth. This renders 
it rich and velvety. The shade must be 
a deep black green and the quantities of 
the colors have to be modified accordingly 
if necessary. Old blackboards should 
be previously thoroughly cleaned with 
soda. 

BRONZING SOLUTIONS FOR PAINTS. 

I The so-called " banana solution" 

(the name being derived from its odor) 
which is used in applying bronzes of 
various kinds, is usually a mixture of 
equal parts of amyl acetate, acetone, 
2d benzine, with just, enough py - 
oxvline dissolved therein to give it 
bX Powdered bronze is put into a 
bottle containing this mature and the 
paint so formed applied with a brusA. 
The thin covering of P^°*v>i^ that n^ 
left after the evaporation oMbeliqnrf 
nrotects the bronze from tne aii 

cleanly fc™? e ^ h / d Chandeliers to 
frames and tarnianea applied 
which a gold ^°^ C w ^ S Io o k fresl and 
from such a solution ^ ' 00 * bronze a s 
new for a long ^Hariotis col- 

wdl as gold bronze and ™ e v d in the 
ored bronze powders can be u 
"banana solution tor n s.^ tfce 
pretty advertising : s gns ^o borde ring 
drug store. Uettejing a ^ ^ t 
work upon the ^ stiff painters' brushes 
XSLH 7 ! oTsth foA and they must 



FAINTS 



hf-Agood bronzing solution forp^t 

turpentine, etc., and ^^^^ 

ttle go 

boued cTwiU 7ncr"ease the adherence. 



SffSW*: to the proper bronze 
color and consistency. A little gooa 



hard 



Paint Brushes— To soften a 
paint brush, stand the brush overnight in 
I pot of «ft_ soaped de K - o ™g 



water Afterwards clean in benzine 
the brush is wrapped with a string do 
not let the string touch the soap. 

Paint brushes which have dried up as 
hard as stone can be cleaned m the fol- 
lowing manner: Dissolve 1 part soda 
in 3 parts water; pour the solution in a 
cylinder glass, and suspend in it the 
brushes to be cleaned, so that they are 
about 2 inches from the bottom of the 
vessel. Let it remain undisturbed at a 
temperature of 140° to 158° F., IS to 24 
hours, after which the most indurated 
brushes will have become soft, so that 
they can be readily cleaned with soap. 
It is essential, however, to observe the 
temperature, as bristle brushes will be 
injured and spoiled if the heat is greater. 

Black. — A Permanent Black of Rich 
Luster for Metal Boxes. — Dissolve 
chlorate of potassium and blue vitriol, 
equal parts, in 38 times as much water, 
and allow the solution to cool. The 
parts to be blacked may be either dipped 
in the solution, or the solution may be 
flowed on and allowed to remain until 
the metal becomes black, after which the 
fixtures should be rinsed in clean water 
and allowed to dry. Those parts of the 

Kl a l Ce i ^\ show ^Perfections in the 
black should be recoated. 

Dead White on Silver Work etc — 
Bruise charcoal very finely and' mixli 

* parts ot charcoal to 1 of borax Of 
n a ; S tr k< k a PaSte With ™ter; apply this 
Sos^ the ' PartS to be deadened; next 

to cool and ut! - u r 
T?K,rL du !fl ed ^Phuric acid; 



*lW t 0 ,Xn 1+ ? Chc r y " r ? d . shade; 
shghtly addul a t?-l CJ ii plac , e * in water 
The bath I Iff ? t V th sul P h uric acid. 
Leave Tu °- be , m °re than 5° Be. 



rinse off several times. 

whl^Vfo^if for Signs, etc. — A 
rf0r Sims a »d article, exposed 



to the air is prepared as follows f or th* 
last coat: Thm so-called Dutch "stand* 
oil with oil of turpentine to working 
consistency, and grind m it equal part* 5 
K inc white and white lead, not addino 
much siccative, as the white lead assist? 
the drying considerably If the paint B 
smoothed well with a badger brush 
very durable white color of great gloss i a 
obtained. Linseed oil, or varnish which 
has thickened like "stand" oil by ] 0ue 
open storing, will answer equally well. 

To Prevent Crawling of Paints.— 
Probably the best method to pursue 
will be to take an ordinary flannel rag 
and carefully rub it oyer the work pre- 
vious to varnishing, striping, or painting. 
This simple operation will obviate the 
possibility of crawling. 

In some instances, however, crawling 
may be traced to a defective varnish. 
The latter, after drying evenly on a well- 
prepared paint surface will at times 
crawl, leaving small pitmarks. For this, 
the simple remedy consists in purchasing 
varnish from a reputable manufacturer. 

FIREPROOF PAINTS: 

See also Fircproofing. 

Fireproofing paints of effective quality 
are prepared in different ways. Natu- 
rally no oily or greasy substances enter 
into their composition, the blending agent 
being simply water. 

I. — One of the standing paint3 con- 
sists of 40 pounds of powdered asbestos, 
10 pounds of alummate of soda, 10 
pounds of lime, and 30 pounds of silinate 
of soda, with the addition of any non- 
rosinous coloring matter desired. The 
whole is thoroughly mixed with enough 
water to produce a perfect blend and 
render an easy application. Two _ or 
niorc coats of this is the rule in applying 
it to any wood surface, inside or outside 
of building. 

II. — Another formula involves the use 
of 40 pounds of finely ground glass, a 
like amount of ground porcelain, and 
similarly of China clay or the same quan- 
tity of powdered asbestos, and 20 pounds 
of quicklime. These materials are 
ground very fine and then mixed in W 
pounds of liquid silicate of soda witn 
water, as in the preceding formula. U wo 
or more coats, if necessary, are given 

Each of these paints is applied with a 
brush in the ordinarv way, the drying 
being accomplished in a few hours, and, 
if coloring matter is desired, the abo^e 
proportions are varied accordingly- 

III. — A surface coated with 3 coats W 
water glass, these 3 coats being sut 



PAINTS 



491 



with water glass con- 



is praciica.ii j * , 7r ' 

vieldint? to fierce consuming names 
$J £ wmJlhat protracted exposure.^ 

TV— Zinc white, 70 pounds; air- 
i iL'l lime 39 pounds; white lead, 50 
^mds -Opiate of zinc, 10 pounds; 
Ete o soda, 7 gallons. The zinc 
white and lime are mixed together then 
™ iund in elastic oil, after which the sih- 
£? e of soda is added, this addition being 
Slowed by the white lead and sulphate 
3 zinc This white paint can be colored 
to meet any desired shade and itmay be 
riaSed as a good working paint and 
probably fireproof to the same extent 
Et most of the pretentiously sounded 
pigments on the markets are. 

Fireproof and Waterproof Paints.— 
The following recipes are claimed to 
resist both fire and water: A prepara- 
tion for protecting wood against the ac- 
tion of fire and of moisture, and also ior 
producing on the surface of wood and 
metal a coat, insulating with reference to 
electricitv and preservative from corro- 
sion, has been introduced m France 
by Louis Bethisy and Myrthil Rose. 
The bases or fundamental raw materials 
quite distinct from those hitherto em- 
ployed for the same purpose, are 100 
parts, by weight, of nitro-cellulose and 30 
parts, by weight, of chloride of lime, dis- 
solved in 50 per cent alcohol. 

Preparation of the Bases. — The cellu- 
lose (of wood, paper, cotton, linen, ramie, 
or hemp) is put in contact with^two- 
thirds part of sulphuric acid of 66°^ Be. 
and one-third part of nitric acid of 42° Be. 
for some 20 or 30 minutes, washed with 
plenty of water, and kept for 24 hours in 
a tank of water supplied with an ener- 
getic current. , . 

The nitro-cellulose thus obtained is 
bleached for this purpose; a double hypo- 
chlorite of aluminum and magnesium is 
employed. This is obtained by grinding 
together 100 parts of chloride of lime, 60 
parts of aluminum sulphate, 23 parts of 
magnesium sulphate, with 200 parts of 
water, 

"When the nitro-cellulose is bleached 
and rewashed, it is reduced to ^ powder 
and dried as thoroughly as possible. It 
is then placed in a vat hermetically closed 
and put in contact with the indicated 
proportion of calcium chloride dissolved 
m alcohol. This solution of calcium 
chloride should be prepared at least 
24 hours in advance and filtered. 

Composition, of the Coating. — This 



has the following constituents: Bases 
(nitro-cellulose and solution of calcium 
chloride), 1 part; amyl acetate (solvent 
of the bases), 5 parts, by weight; sul- 
phuric ether of 65°, 1.650 parts, by 
weight; alcohol, 0.850 parts, by weight; 
one of these powders, alum, talc, as- 
bestos, or mica, 0.100 parts. Other sol- 
vents may be employed instead of amyl 
acetate; for example, acetone, acetic acid, 
ether alcohol, or methylic alcohol. The 
ether alcohol furnishes a product drying 
very quickly. If a very pliant coating 
is desired, the amyl acetate is employed 
preferably, with addition of vaseline oil, 
0.20 parts, and lavender oil, 0.010 parts. 

Method of Operating. — The sulphuric 
acid is mixed with the alcohol, and left 
for an hour in contact, shaking from 
time to time. Afterwards the amyl ace- 
tate is added, and left in contact for an- 
other hour under similar agitation. I_ 
case of the employment of vaseline o' 
and lavender on, these two are mingle 
in ether alcohol. The base is introduce 
and left in contact for 24 hours, wit 
frequent agitation. The fluidity of th 
product is augmented by increasing th 
quantity of the solvent. 

Properties. — Wood covered with thi 
coating is fireproof, non-hygrometri 
and refractory to the electric current. I 
also resists the action of acids and alk" 
lies. Metals covered with it are she! 
tered from oxidation, and effeetuall 
insulated on their surface from the ete 
trie current. The coating is liquid i 
form, and applied like collodions, eith 
by the brush or by immersion or otn 
suitable method. 

Paint Deadening.— In order to obtain 
an even dullness of .large walls, proceed 



^fX^ After all tSe diH ^as been 
carefully swept off, od with K pans 

SSed 5a ^nLr S P lnTew£ r ou 
down the, smooth places m ^ 

mf is P "iL 0n t e he gTouTd paint co, 

of whiting y^j^/iS 

lead, 1 part; both faneiy g ^ 
diluted as above. "f th e clialk in 

grounding too thin because the ^ 
ftself possesses little coven ^ f h er . 
is not the mission of ' »« CB b w . 
to adulterate the 
hard foundation tor t™= 
coats- For the third eoaUr 

leaC t 1 PW S bind wth a soft hfirpencS. 
as above and blend wit ^ 

For the final ,%PS C fn oil with any d 
white, Sr^^'Xr'and thinned wi 
sired rising color ana 
turpentine and rain 



Mix 



PAINTS 



* - nnd the turpentine with the color 



to lay on; 



gloss" after a few days 
yellow 
air, a; 
neney 



d [besides excels by great perma- 



lellow: e^n in places Jess exposed to the 

a 

b 

more difficult of treatmen 



Another way is to add white ^ g 
j 0 f wa tcr to the last coating. A i«s 
Kai Jato gives a handsome du Iness 
. . ilffl^iin nf treatment. A 



also 



obtained by 
dissolved in 
This is very 



to bt 



but is 

ce matt coating is 
addition of Venetian soap 
water instead of the wax. 
desirable for church decorations where 
exceptionally large surfaces are 
deadened. 
PAINT DRYERS: 

I. — Ordinary barytes 

Whiting 

Litharge & 

Sulphate of zinc .... 2 

Sugar of lead. . . 2 

Boiled linseed oil. 



4 



pounds 
pounds 
pounds 
pounds 
pounds 
pounds 

Plaster of Paris \ pound 

II. — Whiting 16 pounds 

Barytes 16 pounds 

White lead 3 pounds 

Boiled linseed oil . . . \ gallon 

PAINTS FOR GOLD AND GILDING: 

Goli Paints.— The formulas of the 
various gold paints on the market are 
arefully guarded trade secrets. Essen- 
tially they consist of a bronze powder 
mixed with a varnish. The best bronze 
iowder for the purpose is what is known 
n the trade as "French flake," a deep 
raid bronze. This bronze, as seen under 
the microscope, consists of tiny flakes or 
spangles of the bronze metal. As each 
minute Bake forms a facet for the re- 
flection of color, the paint made with it 
is much more brilliant than that, prepared 
from finely powdered bronze. F 

For rnaki ng gold paint like the SO - 
JH ^ ashabl e gold enamel " that is 
ite Vis 6 » anufa <*««™ at the print 

Pooler. This ;St a fl o7oK 
52S .^P^nt celluloid in ^mvl 

Transparent cellu- 
loid finely shred- 
ded. . . , 
Acetone, ^m^a^St^ 
Amyl acetate to nWke 20 ounces. 



I 



Digest the celluloid in the acetone until 
dissoFved and add the amyl acetate 
From 1 to 4 ounces of flake bronze is to 
be mixed with this ^quantity of varnish 
For silver paint or "aluminum enamel'' 
flake aluminum bronze powder should 
be used in place of the gold. The cellu 
loid varnish incloses the bronze particles 
in an impervious coating, air-tight and 
water-tight. As it contains nothing that 
will act upon the bronze, the latter re- 
tains its luster for a long period, until 
the varnished surface becomes worn or 
abraded and the bronze thus exposed to 
atmospheric action. 

All of _ the "gold" or, more properly, 
gilt furniture that is sold so cheaply by" 
the furniture and department stores is 
gilded with a paint of this kind, and for 
that reason such furniture can be offered 
at a moderate price. The finish is sur- 
prisingly durable, and in color and luster 
is a very close imitation of real gold-leaf 
work. This paint is also used on picture 
frames of cheap and medium grades, tak- 
ing the place of gold leaf or the lacquered 
silver leaf formerly used on articles of the 
better grades; it is also substituted for 
"Dutch metal," or imitation gold leaf, on 
the cheapest class of work. 

A cheaper gold paint is made by using 
an inexpensive varnish composed ol 
gutta percha, gum darn mar, or some 
other varnish gum, dissolved in benzole, 
or in a mixture of benzole and benzine. 
The paints made with a celluloid-amyJ- 
acetate varnish give off a strong banana- 
like odor when applied, and may be read- 
ily recognized by this characteristic. 

The iin palpably powdered bronzes 
are called "lining" bronzes. They are 
chiefly used for striping or lining by car- 
riage painters; in bronzing gas fixtures 
and metal work; in fresco and other in- 
terior decoration, and in printing; the 
use of a very fine powder in inks or paints 
admits of the drawing or printing of very 
delicate lines. 

■Lining bronze is also used on picture 
frames or other plastic ornamental work. 
Mixed with a thin weak glue sizing it is 
applied over "burnishing clay," a nd 
when dry is polished with agate bur- 
nishers. The object thus treated, after 
receiving a finishing coat of a thin trans- 
parent varnish, imitates very closely m 
appearance a piece of finely cast antique 
bronze. To add still more to this ettect 
the burnishing clay is colored the g ree °" 
ish black that is seen in the deep P aTl * 
of real antique bronzes, and the bronjj 
powder, mixed with size, is applied ojUJ 
to the most prominent parts or ^ 
lights" of the ornament. 



PAINTS 



493 



of the celluloid- 
or bronze liquid, 



Since the discovery 
. of-etate varnish, 
&m I its preservative properties on bronze 
aD «ders manufacturers have discon- 
Enled the use of liquids containing oils, 
*ntine or gums, since their constitu- 
ent! corrode the bronze metal, causing 
the P^nt finally to turn black. 



Gilding in Size.— The old painters and 
cilders used to prepare the gold size 
8. .._!..„„ u„t nowadays it is usually 



KVmscIves, but nowadays it is usuaiiy 
bough! ready made, barf g the White of 
Sg g additioial. The best and most 
Stable, and especially suited for fine 
work is undoubtedly the red French 
gold 'size. It is cleaned, as far as pos- 
sible of all impurities, and powdered. 
For 246 grains lake 1 white of egg; put it 
into a glass, taking care to exclude the 
volk entirely— otherwise the burnish will 
show black spots. Beat the white of egg 
to a froth with a long, well-cleaned bristle 
brush; add the froth to the size and grind 
finely together, which is soon done. 
When grinding, a little water and red 
size, if necessary, may be added (use 
only water for thinning). After being 
ground, the size is forced through a very 
fine hair sieve into a perfectly clean 
vessel, and covered up well, for imme- 
diate or subsequent use. 

The raw stuff of the red size is bolus, 
which is dug in France and Armenia in 
excellent quality. Besides the red size 
there are yellow, white (pipe clay), blue, 
and gray (alumina), which are used for 
certain "purposes, to enumerate which 
here would lead too far. 

For burnish gold, always take yellow 
size for ground work. Dip a finely 
ground bristle brush in the gold size pre- 
pared for use; fill a well-cleaned glass 
(holding 1 pint) half full of water, and 
add the size contained in the brush, also 
about 4 to 5 spoonfuls of pure alcohol. 
It is advisable not to take too much size; 
the liquid, when applied, must hardly 
have a yellow tint. When this is dry 
soon after, commence applying the size, 
for which a hair pencil is used. The 
essentials are to paint evenly and not too 
thickly, so that the tone remains uniform. 
^■PPly three coats of size. 

When the size is laid on correctly and 
has become dry, brush the whole with 
a special brush, or rub with a flannel rag, 
so as to obtain the highest possible luster. 
-The size must not stand too long; other- 
wise no gloss can be developed. After 
brushing, coat the work with weak glue 
yjater and wrap it up in tissue paper if 
kegilding is not to be done at once. 
The strictest cleanliness is essential, as 



the red gold size is very sensitive. The 
parts where the size has been applied 
must not be touched with the hand, else 
grease spots will ensue, which will make 
a flawless gloss in gilding impossible. 
Ihe least relaxation of the necessary 
attention may spoil the whole job, so that 
everything has to be ground off again. 

The necessary tools for the application 
of gold leaf are: Hair pencils of various 
sizes, tip, cushion, and gilding knife, as 
with oihgilding. Take pure alcohol or 
grain brandy, and dilute with two-thirda 
water. When ready to apply the gold 
leaf, dip a hair pencil of suitable size into 
the fluid, but do not have it full enough 
that the alcohol will run on the size 
ground. Moisten a portion of the 
ground surface as large as the gold leaf, 
which is laid on immediately after. 
Proceed in the same manner, first mois- 
tening, then applying the ready-cut gold 
leaf. The latter must not be pressed on, 
but merely laid down lightly, one leaf a 
little over the edge of the previous one, 
without using up too much gold. Tech- 
nical practice in gold-leaf gilding is 
presupposed; through this alone can any 
skill be acquired, reading being of no 
avail. 

The leaf of gold being applied, all dus 
must be swept off by means of a light, 
fine hair pencil (but never against th 
overlapping edges), and the burnishuv 
is commenced. For this purpose ther 
are special agate tools of the shape of 
horn. Flint stone, blood stone, an 
wolf's teeth are sometimes, but gradua 1 
more seldom, employed. Burnish till 
full, fine luster appears; but very car 
fully avoid dents and lines, not to spea 
of scratches, which would be very har 
to mend. 

Gold Enamel Paints — 

L-Pure turps, 6 pmto 

Copal varnish J P"Jt 

Good gold bronze... 6J pounds 
Calcis hydrate (dry- 

slaked lime) Jounce 

Mix the varnish and turps at a gentle 
heat, then slake well w h th Mim fc ^ 
settle for a few days then g 
clean portion and mix witn xae p 

II.- White hard varnish. U£ 

Methylated spirit... J ^% 

Gold bronze. . - ■ • ■ ■ 121 V 

Finely powdered g 

the mica to an imp ^ \? °J ^ id . 



proportion of mica, 
Key- Powdered 
used also. 

GRAISTING WITH PAINT: 
See also Wood. 
Oak Graining—Prepare 



494 



PAINTS 



as it imparts bril- 
mothcr-of-pearl is 



paint 



of 



^Thirds of white lead and one-third of 
$d n Ihfr with the 

, n ;u f l linseed oil and a little anei, 
S poor twice with this m- 

, er ^en°the S Stfo^ ng f dry^ 
S the floor with a thinly, liquid paint 
paint tne _ and sienna> apply- 

the longitudinal direc- 
tion of the boards. Treat a strip about 
20 inches wide at a time, and draw at 
once a broad paint brush or, in the ab- 
sence of such, an ordinary brush or 
goose feather along the planks through 
the wet paint, whereupon the floor will 
acquire a nicely grained appearance. 
The paint requires several days to dry. 
A subsequent coating of varnish will 
cause the graining to stand out still more 
prominently. 

Birch. — Imitations of birch are use- 
'ully employed for furniture. The 
'round should be a light, clean buff, 
made from white lead, stained with 
cither yellow ocher or raw sienna in oil. 
[n graining, brush over the surface with 
thin wash of warm brown, making 
the panel of 2 or 3 broad color shades. 
Then take a large mottler and mottle the 
darker parts into the light, working 
slantwise, as for maple, but leaving a 
broad and stiff mark. While this is still 
wet soften the panel and then slightly 
mottle across the previous work to break 
ft up When thoroughly dry, carefully 
wet the work over with clean water and 
clean mottler, and put in darker over- 
gram with a thin oak 
overgrainer in tubes. 

Maple.— Sixty pounds white lead; 1 
" deep vermilion; 1 ounce lemon 



overgrainer or 



ounce 
chrome. 



Ash,— -Sixty pounds 
ounce deep vermilion- 
chrome. 



white lead; 1 
1 ounce lemon 



t o * °ak.---Sixty pounds 
' 1 i? unds Fr ench ocher; 1 



Medium 

id; 

burnt umber 

£&£*T^- > 

ocher 

Dark Oak. 
i° .Pounds , 
lued.im Venetian red 

Satin Wood.— 



white 
ounce 



1 ounce lemon pou 1 nds wt ^ lead; 

lemon chrome; } pourj d F renc h 



hrt?l? y P°? nds white lead; 
burnt umber; 



-Sixty 



1 J pounds 
pounds white 



lead; 1 ounce deep vermilion; I J, poun. da 
lemon chrome. 

Pollard Oak.— Seventy-five pound, 
white lead; 20 pounds French ocher- I 
pounds burnt umber; 2£ pounds medium 
Venetian red. 

Pitch Pine. — Sixty pounds white lead 
i pound French ocher; £ pound medium ' 
Venetian red. 

Knotted Oak. — Sixty pounds 
lead; 9 pounds French ocher; 3J pounds 
burnt umber. 

Italian Walnut. — Sixty pounds white 
lead; 6 pounds French ocher; 1^ pounds 
burnt umber; 1J pounds medium Vene- 
tian red. 

Rosewood. — Nine and one-half pounds 
burnt umber; 40 pounds medium Venetian 
red; 10 pounds orange chrome. 

Dark Mahogany. — Nine and one-half 
pounds burnt umber; 40 pounds medium 
Venetian red; 10 pounds orange chrome. 

Light Mahogany. — Sixty pounds white 
lead; 3 pounds burnt umber; 10 pounds 
medium Venetian red. 

American Walnut. — Thirty pounds 
white lead; 9 pounds French ocher; 
4 pounds burnt umber; 1 pound medium 
Venetian red. 

LUMINOUS PAINTS. 

The illuminating power of the phos- 
phorescent masses obtained by heating 
strontium thiosulphate or barium thio- 
sulphate is considerably increased by the 
addition, before heating, of small quan- 
tities of the nitrates of uranium, bismuth, 
or thorium. Added to calcium thio- 
sulphate, these nitrates do not heighten 
the luminosity or phosphorescence. 
The product from strontium thiosul- 
phate is more luminous than that of the 
barium compound. Among the best 
luminous paints are the following: 

I. — Tennord's. — One hundred parts, 
by weight, of strontium carbonate; 100 
parts, by weight, of sulphur; 0.5 parts, 
by weight, of potassium chloride; 0.S 
parts, by weight, of sodium chlorides 
0-4 parts, by weight, of manganese 
chloride. The materials are heated tor 
three-quarters of an hour to one hour, 
to about 2,372° F. The product gives 
a violet light. 

II. — Mourel's.— One hundred parts, by 
weight, of strontium carbonate; 30 parts, 
by weight, of sulphur; 2 parts, by weight, 
of sodium carbonate; 0.5 parts, by weigju 
of soduim chloride: 0.2 parts, by ^ el § ni J 
pf manganese sulphate. The method o 
treatment is the same as in the orst, WS 
phosphorescence deep yellow. 



3 of 

the 



itt Vanino's — Sixty parts, by weight, 

0 f stronciu^ ^ cent acldluec ] a l co - 

we , ig inKon of bismuth nitrate; 0 parts, 

b/ vve.gR ol a ■ Th materials 

^mted Xied, brought gradual 1, to a 
ar e HUxeu. « ^ ^ an j nea t ec i for 

Sut Tn'hour. The phosphorescence is 

emerald green. 

" TV— Balmain's.— Twenty parts, by 
• it of calcium oxide (burnt lime), 
7 e f rorn ron G part,, by weight, of sul- 
Ibur T P art S by weight, of starch; 1 
P?rt b y weight, of a 0.5 per cent solution 
& bismuth nitrate; 0.15 parts, by weight, 
fnoKim chloride; 0.15 parts, by 
° St of sodium chloride. The maten- 
Tirfre mted dned, and heated to 1,300° 
C ^,378° F.). The product gives a vio- 

iC To h make these phosphorescent sub- 
stances effective, they are exposed for a 
time to direct sunlight; or a mercury 
amp may be used. Powerful incandes- 
cent gas light also does well, but requires 
more time. 

PAINTS FOR METAL SURFACES: 

Blackening Ornaments of Iron.— I — 
To five irnn ornaments a black- brown 
to black color, proceed in the following 
manueL- The articles are treated with 
corrosives, cleaned of all adhering grease, 
and placed in a 10 per cent solution ot 
potassium bichromate, dried in the air, 
and finally held over an open, well-glow- 
ing, non-sooting fire for 3 minutes. 1 he 
first coloring is usually black brown, but 
if this process is repeated several times, 
a pure black shade is obtained. Special 
attention has to be paid to removing all 
grease, otherwise the greasy spots will 
not be touched by the liquid^ and the 
coloring produced will become irregular. 
Benzine is employed for that P U JP°. S ^ 
and the articles must not be touched with 
the fingers afterwards. 

II. — This process protects the iron 
from rust for a long time. The treat- 
ment consists in coating the objects very 
uniformly with a thin layer of hnseed-ou 
varnish, and burning it off over a char- 
coal fire. During the deflagration the 
draught must be stopped. The varnish 
will first go up in smoke with a strong 
formation of soot, and finally burn up 
entirely. The process is repeated, i. e., 
after one coating is burned off a new one 
is applied, until the parts exhibit a uni- 
formly handsome, deep • black color. 
■Next, wipe off the covering with a dry 
and heat again, but only moder- 



ately. Finally, the articles are taken 
from the fire and rubbed with a rag well 
saturated with linseed-oil varnish. The 
black turns completely dull, and forms a 
real durable covering for the objects. 

Black for Polished Iron Pieces. — Apply 

successive layers of a very concentrated 
solution of nitrate of manganese dis- 
solved in alcohol over a gentle fire and 
the water bath. The surfaces to be 
blackened should be previously heated. 
By repeating the layers all the lints be- 
tween brownish black and bluish black 
may be obtained. 

Glossy Black for Bicycles, etc. — 

Amber 8 ounces 

Linseed oil 4 ounces 

Asphaltum 1% ounces 

Rosin l| ounces 

Oil turpentine 8 ounces 

Heat the linseed oil to boiling point, 
add the amber, asphaltum, and rosin, 
and when all melted remove from the fire 
and gradually add the turpentine 



Japan Black.— The following is 
good japan black for metal surfaces: 
Take IS ounces of amber and 2 ounces 
of asphaltum. Fuse by heat, and add 
A pint boiled oil and 2 ounces ot rosm. 
When cooling add 16 ounces of oil of 
turpentine. 

Brass and Bronze Protective Paint- 
As a protective covering, especially tor 
brass and bronze objects, a colorless 
celluloid solution is recommended, such 
T is found in trade under the name of 
"Zapon" (q- v.). 

Paint for Copper.- Dissolve : 1 ounce of 
, • 1 «„orf- nf warm soil waxer, 
Uh" "cold 233 flour to umko it about 

thimble of rosin and £ ounce 01 & s 

16 timing ^n. T TheUWi^if-e : 
fully carried out gives tt^ ^ 

faction: . lh ? * r f h f "Prface of the iron, 
oughly <= lea "; n f d t e £ioD s in the way o 
removing all aa £S e tne question of 
dirt, rust, etc, before the q ^ 
priming is considered^ A P a view of 
Instance is apphed ■ moic^ 

protecting the ir0 " f a decorative 
rnfluences ra her Jhan d 

pffect, careful alien u surface 
voted for securing^ ^fce a thorough 
which is calculated to pro A t 

and pe rma ? en * oJ P he nature of. the 
deal depends upon ™ cast iro n, 

metal to be P*^^ rough exterior, 
for instance, possebsmfe 



496 



PAINTS 



• th or dinary precautions can be more 
readily painted with the prospect of a 
Eminent adhesion of the paint, than a 
permanent a ght , iron surface. 

fhetttrTt has hlea demonstrated 
that a hard and elastic paint* needed 
•hilf with regard to cast iron, otner 
paints lontainfng iron oxides are more 
suitable. For good drying and cov ennj 
properties, as well as elasticity a good 
Eoiled oil to which has been added an 
adequate proportion of red lead will be 
found to form an excellent paint for 
°mooth metal surfaces. The primary 
object is to protect the surface of the iron 
from moisture for the purpose of avoid- 
ing rust. The priming must therefore 
be carried out so that it will stick after 
which subsequent coats may be added it 
desired. 

It is advisable that articles made of 
iron should first be coated with lmseed- 
oil varnish. It dries slowly, hardens, 
and enables the operator afterwards to 
exercise an effective control over the con- 
dition of his material. Iron must be 
absolutely dry and free from rust when 
it is to be painted. It is best to apply 
next a coating of hot linseed oil; when 
dry this should be followed by a priming 
of pure red lead in good linseed oil, ana 
the iron should then be painted as de- 
sired, using ground oil paints and leav- 
ing an interval of a week between each 
coating. Cementing should be done 
after the red lead priming, but the last 
coat must not be given until the whole is 
thoroughly dry. Bright oil paints and 
an upper coating with plenty of oil resist 
the effects of heat better than thin coat- 
ings; moreover, rust can be detected in 
its early stages with the former. Coat- 
ings of tar and asphalt (asphalt dissolved 
m turpentine) are practicable for under- 
ground p lpes but are not adapted for 
pipes exposed to the air, as they are 
quickly spoiled. Asphalt varnish/used 
for coating coal scuttles, fire screens etc 

ouTa^ a ? Halt di ^olved in linseed- 
I *l 13h - , on st <> ve s and stovepipes 
are b est coated with graphite. Vepipes 

thele 1 h^b d JS 0n ^ I,Or *«m 



a hold as 
'nary s h eet lron> 

twted "and foTndpff T'"^ has b ^n 
s ?]"tion as fXws f n 1Ve 13 tQ make a 
"deof copper ?onn ' ° Unce of chl °- 
^P«. 1 ounce mtrate of copper- 



1 ounce sal ammoniac, dissolved in 5 
quarts of soft water, to which is added 
1 ounce of crude or commercial livdm 
chloric acid. This solution should hi 
made in an earthenware dish or pot 
in gltss or stoneware, as tin will prec'ir/ 
tate the copper salts and make the solu" 
tion imperfect. _ To large surfaces this 
solution is applied with a broad brush 
when the surface assumes a deep bl ac k 
color, which in drying out in from 12 to 
24 hours becomes a gray white, Upori 
which the properly prepared primer will 
take a permanent grip. On the film so 
produced a much thinner paint will 
cover very much better than a stouter 
paint would on the untreated galvanized 
or ordinary iron surface. A single trial 
will convince the craftsman that this 
treatment is a method that will gi ve 
lasting results, provided he tries the same 
priming paint on the treated and un- 
treated surface. 

To Paint Wrought Iron with Graphite. 
— In order to make wrought iron look 
like new mix fine graphite with equal 
parts of varnish and turpentine oil, add- 
ing a little siccative. Paint the iron 
parts with this twice, allowing to dry 
each time. Especially the second coat- 
ing must be perfectly dry before further 
treatment. The latter consists in pre- 
paring graphite with spirit and applying 
it very thinly over the first coat. After 
the drying or evaporation of the spirit 
the graphite last applied is brushed 
vigorously, whereby a handsome, dura- 
ble gloss is produced. 

Paint for Iron Bodies Exposed to 
Heat. — Dilute 1 part soda water glass 
with 2 parts water and mix intimately 
with the following pigments: 

White. — White lead or sulphate of 
barium. 

Yellow. — Chromate of barium, ocher, 
or uranium yellow. 

Green. — Chromic oxide or ultramarine 
green. 

Blue. — Ultramarine. 

Brown. — Oxide of cadmium, oxide of 
manganese or terra di sienna. 

Red. — English red or chronic red. 

Bronze powder in a suitable quantity 
may be added to the mixture, but not 
niore paint should be prepared than can 
be used up in a few bour<i. The bronje 
powder may also be strewn on the tr csu 
paint, or applied with a dry brush, w 
enhance the gloss. This paint & » ul 
affected by heat, and is inodorous. 

Protective Coating for Bright I"* 
Articles.— Zinc white, SO parts; la»P" 



PAINTS 



497 



tallow, 7 parts; vaseline, 
Sgrt; olive oil, 3 parts; varnish, 1 part. 



black, 2 parts; 



W 7«« her J hour and add J part of 
Boil tog ewe r i tur pentine, stirring 

^'^fcarefhtly and boiling for some 
the mass care auuy _ Uke substance 

time. i fle " 1 i :iL „ ~ ,..;+!, 



IS be readily removed with a rag with 
J|f the use of solvents. _ > 

Bust Paints . — I - — Anew rust paint is 
Xed by the following process: Mix 
? °0 parts dry iron sulphate and 8J parts 
Sum chlorate and heat to 1,500 to 
vR00» F The chlorine set free seems 
to have a very favorable action on the 
iobr of the simultaneously forming iron 
Zcide In order to avoid, however, too 
far-reaching an effect of the chlorine gas 
about 18 pounds of a substance which 
absorbs the same mechanically, such as 
kaolin, ground pumice stone, ocner, 
etc., are added to the mixture. 

II— A material known under the 
names of lardite, steatite, agalmatolite, 
pa<Wite, is excellently adapted as a sub- 
stitute for the ordinary metallic protec- 
tive agent of the pigments and has the 
property of protecting iron from rust m 
an effective manner. In China, lardite 
is used for protecting edifices of sand- 
stone, which crumbles under the action 
of the atmosphere. Likewise a thin 
layer of powdered steatite, applied in the 
form of paint, has been found valuable 
there as a protector against the decay of 
obelisks, statues, etc. Lardite, besides, 
possesses the quality of being exceedingly 
fine-grained, which renders this material 
valuable for use in ship painting. 
Ground steatite is one of the finest ma- 
terials which can be produced, and no 
other so quickly and firmly adheres to the 
fibers of iron and steel. Furthermore, 
steatite is lighter than metallic covering 
agents, and covers, mixed in paint, a 
larger surface than zinc white, red lead, 
or iron oxide. Steatite as it occurs in 
Switzerland is used there and in the 
Tyrol for stoves, since it is fireproof. 

_ Steel. — An excellent coating for steel, 
imitating the blue color of natural steel, 
is composed of white shellac, 5 parts; 
borax, 1 part; alcohol, 5 parts; water, 4 
parts; and a sufficient quantity of methy- 
lene blue. The borax is dissolved in 
^ater, the shellac in alcohol. The 
aqueous solution of the borax is heated 
tea boil and the alcoholic solution of the 
shellac is added with constant stirring. 
Next add the blue color, continuing to 
3tir. Before this coating is applied to 
me steel, e. g., the spokes of a bicycle, 
the latter are first rubbed off with fine 
emery paper. The coat is put on with 



a soft rag. The quantity of pigment tc 
be added is very small. By varying the 
quantity a paler or darker coloring of the 
steel can be produced. 

PA INTS FOR ROOFS AND ROOF 

Carbolineum.— This German prepar- 
ation is made in three colors. 

I. — Pale.— Melt together in an iron 
kettle, over a naked fire, 30 parts of 
American rosin F and 150 parts of pale 
paraffine oil and stir in 10 parts of single 
rectified rosin oil. 

II. — Dark.— Melt 100 parts of an- 
thracene oil and 20 parts of American 
rosin F on a slow fire. Next stir in 2 
parts of Para rubber solution {or solution 
of caoutchouc waste) and keep on boil- 
ing until all is dissolved. When this is 
done there should be still added 5 parts 
of crude concentrated carbolic acid and 
5 parts of zinc chloride lye, 50° Be., stir- 
ring until cool. The last- named ad- 
mixture is not absolutely necessary, but 
highly advisable, owing to its extraor- 
dinary preservative and bactericidal 
properties. 

HI. — Colored— For red, melt 100 
parts of coal-tar oil, then stir in 50 parts 
of pale paraffine oil, and finally 75 parts 
of bole or iron minium, and pass through 
the paint mill. Although the addition of 
iron minium is very desirable, it is con- 
siderably more expensive. For gray, 
proceed as above, with the exception 
that metallic gray is used m place of tne 
bole. For green, metallic green is em- 
ployed. The colors are identical with 
those used in the manufacture of roof 
varnish. To increase the antiseptic 
properties of the, colored carbolineum 
any desired additions of phenol or mm 
chloride solutions may be made but the 
chief requirement in the case ^of colored 
carbolineum is good covering power ot 
he coating. 

Tar 



Paints for Roofs Covered with 
Paper, for Roofing Paper, etc.- 
I -Distilled coal tar..,. 70 parts 
Heavy mineral oil 

(lubricatmg oil).. 10 parts 
American rosm ^ P* 11 

n.-Distilled local tar » 
Trinidad asphalt. .. f 
Mineral oO^Uxn- 

ing paraffine. - . - - v 
DrycUy finely 

ground • ■ * 



German 
to be 



498 



PAINTS 



I ,j e weatherproof, and glossy like 
durable, W T} a nn]ication consists or a 
0d pa iT roat which the surface 

8t °tlroZ I applied after the former is 
coat pMP«r » JP^tion of the ground- 
*f dissolve 1,000 parts, by weight, 
bntfeiFes scan | 10 000 parW 

10 000 parts of boiling water, adding 
17 500 parts of spirit of sal ammoniac. 
These two soluuons are poured to- 
gether and well stirred Then dis- 
folve 400 parts of chrome alum in fi 000 
parts of water, and pour mto the above 
mixture. To this mixture add 10,000 
pit ol pipe clay, stirring the whole well 
Ld tinting with earth colors ocher, 
Vandyke brown, etc. The solid ingre- 
dients must be dissolved in boibnc hot 
water, and sifted so as to obtain a nneiy 
divided ground color. This priming is 
applied in a warm state. The coating 
proper is put on the ground coat after it 
is dry, in about one-half to one hour. 
For this coat dissolve 2,000 parts of crys- 
tallized alum in 10,000 parts of boiling 
water and add to tb/Is liquid a solution of 
2,000 parts of glue in 10 ; 000 parts of 
water; in a special vessel prepare soap- 
suds of 1,000 parts of Marseilles soap in 
12,000 parts of boiling water; dissolve 
120 parts of chrome alum in 1,500 parts 
of boiling water> and mix the three solu- 
tions together with diligent stirring. This 
paint or liquid should also be put on hot, 
and assures a durable exterior paint. 

PAINTS, STAINS, ETC., FOR SHIPS. 

Anti-Fouling Composition.— Make an 
agglutinant by heating together 

. . By weight 

White lead, ground in 



oil. 



2 parts 



Red lead, dry i part 

Kaw inseed oil 14 parts 

While hot stir in yellow ocher, kao- 
lin baked clay in powder, or any inert 

manganese lmoleate to the 
consistency. 



required 



K^lreparjhi 0 *f ist *» Water.- 
"ry white U 



-- lead, 
donate only- 
Litharge 

Linsee d 



car- 

■ ■ • ■ 1 part 

, oiV (fluid 1 Pait 

meaSUre )' - 14 parts 



Heat these and stir until of the Cfm 
sistency of thick glue, and for every M 
parts, by weight of this compound add 
3 parts, by weight, of turpentine, and 1 
part, by weight, of mastic varnish ( m n 5 
tic rosin dissolved in turpentine); reheai 
the whole, and for everv 32 parts hi 
weight, stir in and mix the following; 
Baked and powdered 

day. 4 parts 

Portland cement 16" parts 

Zinc white 1 p art 

lied lead 1 par t 

After well mixing, dilute with more or 
less, turpentine (not exceeding 25 per 
cent of the whole), or linoleate of man- 
ganese, the latter being preferable, as 
it has greater binding power. For col- 
ored paints use red oxide of iron or green 
oxide of chrome, but do not use chrome 
green or lead, as they will not stand the 
action of the sea water. 

Compositions for Ships' Bottoms. 

Green. 

Pale rosin 25 pounds 

Prepared mineral 

green. 8 pounds 

D. L. zinc 13 pounds 

Boiled oil 2 pounds 

Mineral naphtha. . . 1 gallon 

Petroleum spirit. ... gallons 

Prepared Mineral Green. 

Dry levigated min- 
eral green 28 pounds 

Turpentine 7 pounds 



Turpentine varnish . 7 
Refined linseed oil . . 7 

Cupper Color. 

Pale rosin. . 25 

15 

5 



Light Italian ocher. 
D. L. zinc ....... 

Turkey red paint . 
Petroleum spirit. . 
Mineral naphtha. 



pounds 
pounds 

pounds 

pounds 

pounds 

pound 

pounds 

pound 



pounds 
pounds 
pounds 
gallon 



Pink. 

Pale rosin 25 

D. L. zinc. 1(5 

Deep vermilion 7 

Mineral naphtha. . . 1 
Petroleum spirit. ... 1$ gallons 

PAINTS FOR WALLS OF CEMENT, 
PLASTER, HARD FINISH, ETC. 
Coating for Bathrooms. — As a r 
cement plastering, as well as oil P» inl ; 
suffices for the protection of walls ana 
ceilings in bathrooms, but attention 
must be called to the destructive actio? 
of medicinal admixtures. For 
rooms as well as for laboratories, 



nle 



such 
an 



into 
oil 



PAINTS 



499 



,. ,.- on 0 f Swedish wood tar, madi 
ftlXlin,. consistency with a hg 



f turpentine and put on hot, has 
0,1 ^ouid very excellent. It is of 
deviously to warm the wall 



^ taVe" previously to warm tne wau 
r M v To the second coat add some 
align 11 ?- durable coating is ob- 

Sd which looks so pleasing that it is 
1 ?!pcessarv to draw some stripes with 
TdLker ^mt so as to divide the surface 
into fields, 
rement, to Paint Over Fresh.— The 
H Thou d be washed with dilute su\- 
SuriS several days before painting. 
Ks will change the surplus caustic lime 
to sulphate of lime or gypsum The 
acid should be about one-half chamber 
ac d and one-half water. This should be 
repeated before painting, and a coat of 
raw linseed oil flowed on freely should 
be given for the first coat While this 
cannot be always guaranteed as effectual 
for making the pamt hold, it is the best 
method our correspondent has heard ot 
for the purpose, and is worth trying when 
H is absolutely necessary to pamt over 
fresh cement. 

Damp Walls, Coating for.— Thirty 
parts of tin are dissolved m 40 parts of 
hydrochloric acid, rnd 30 parts of sal 
ammoniac are added. A powder com- 
posed of freestone, 50 parts; zine oxide, 
20 parts; pounded glass, 15 parts; pow- 
dered marble, 10 parts; and calcined 
magnesia, 5 parts, is prepared, and made 
into a paste with the liquid above men- 
tioned. Coloring matter may be added. 
The composition may be used as a 
damp-proof coating for walls, or for 
repairing stonework, or for molding 
statues or ornaments. 

Facade Paint. — For this zinc oxide is 
especially adapted, prepared with size 
or casein. Any desired earth colors may 
also be added. The surfaces are coated 
8 times with this mass. After the third 
application is dry, put on a single coat- 
ing of zinc chloride solution of 30° Be. 
to which 3 per cent borax is added. 

This coating is very solid, can be 
washed, and is not injured by hydrogen 
sulphide. 

Hard -Finished Walls.— The treatment 
for hard-finished walls which are to be 
painted in flat colors is to prime with a 
thin coat of lead and oil well brushed 
into the wall. Next put on a thin coat of 
size; next a coat mixed with 4 oil 



paint dries too fast, and is liable to show 
laps, put a little glycerine in, to retard 
the drying. 

PAINTS, WATERPROOF AND 
WEATHERPROOF: 

See also Fireproof Paint. 
The following are claimed to be both 
waterproof and weatherproof: 

I. — In 50 parts, by weight, of spirit 
of 96 per cent, dissolve 16 part3, by 
weight, of shellac, orange, finely pow- 
dered; 3 parts, by weight, of silver lake, 
finely powdered; and 0.6 parts, by 
weight, of gamboge, finely powdered. 
This paint may be employed without ad- 
mixture of any siccative, and is excel- 
lently adapted for painting objects which 
arc exposed to the inclemencies of the 
weather, as it is perfectly weatherproof. 

II. — .Mix glue water with zinc oxide 
(zinc white) and paint the respective 
object with this mixture. When this is 
dry (after about % hours) it is followed 
up with a coating of glue water and zinc 
chloride in a highly diluted state. Zinc 
oxide enters into a chemical combination 
with zinc chloride, which acquires the 
hardness of glass and a mirror-hke 
bright surface. Any desired colors can 
be prepared with the glue water (size) 
and are practically imperishable. Ihis 
zinc coating is very durable, dries quick- 
ly, and is 50 per cent cheaper than oil 
paint. 

Water- and Acid -Resisting Paint.— 
Caoutchouc is melted with colophony at 
a low temperature, after the caoutchouc 
has been dried in a drying closet (stove) 
at 158° to 176° F., until no more con- 
siderable increase in weight is P^epU- 
while the colophony has completely 
lost its moisture ty repeated melting 
The raw products thus prepared wOl 
readily melt upon slight heating. To 
S melted colophony and caoutchouc 
& : £ I hot liquid statezmc white. ^ 
similar Pigment. 1 f n J l ™ T{cctly aD - 
consistmg of 50 parts oi P h £ lute 

hydrous -^^^^^ofolnzine. The 
alcohol, » nd PJ £ worked through in 

^t^iT^lZ^ to the 
desired consistency. 

aesircu Paint. — An air- 

Water- and Air -Proorx-a 



glne 



and | turpentine; next a coat of flat 
paint mixed with turpentine. If you use 
any drv pigment mix it stiff in oil and 
thin with turns. If in cither case the 



: - and Air-^ty" the subject 

proof and waterproc, pamt, the 
of a recent French pa en , F 
of 30 parte, by f j . su , phuxl c 
Pt rtS iS narts camphor; 50 parts gum 

t^kl^-^ 100 pflrts paper 



500 



PAINTS 



rA- l^d in sulphuric acid); TOO parts 

^Fhei with sufficient sulphuric ether; 
t ° h U e cotSa is dissolved in the acetone and 

^'^cto.'lrinktd^particularly 
useful as a protection against mo.sture 
for all stuffs. 

PAINTS FOR WOOD: 

See also Wood. 

Floor Coating.— A new paint for floors, 
especially those of soft wood: Mix to- 
gether 2.2 pounds joiners glue; a little 
over 1 ounce powdered bichromate ot 
potash; 3£ ounces aniline brown; arid 
10 i quarts water in a tin vessel. After 
6 hours have elapsed (when the glue is 
completely soaked), heat gradually to 
the boiling point. The coating becomes 
perfectly water-tight after 2 or 3 days; it 
is not opaque, as the earthy body is lack- 
ing. The glue causes the wood fibers 
to be firmly united. It becomes in- 
soluble by the addition of bichromate 
of potash, under the influence of light. 
Without this admixture a simple glue 
coat has formerly not been found satis- 
factory, as it dissolves if cleaned with 
water. 

Durable House Paint. — I. — New 
houses should be primed once with pure 
Unseed oil, then painted with a thin 
paint from white lead and chalk, and 
thus gradually covered. The last coat 
s prepared of well-boiled varnish, white 
lead, and chalk. The chalk has the 
rmssion to moderate the saponification 
of the hnseed oil by the white lead 
M^mg colors such as ocher and b ack 

assist in producing a durable covering 

thii bTsu^edr^h WhitG ™ d ^ 

chloride -rgStater The IT 

oxide formq wJih n , -Lne zinc 

■glossy surface T& ,A ^ dncss ^nd 
nients any desired c £ d "» xt ™e of pig. 

ttble, driet TuicSv is ind estruc- 

fro ™ the sS 3' f^l no .{ P eel - ! * free 
^ than « p t;J n ^ a «J r Paint, and 

^d^^^oth, Light Wood. 
™ a y he fi at * " th « art ides, which 
the 7 must fi rst be i5 t!,Is mating, 

and clean; th en ^ jit ^mooth 
ttiey are coated with 



thin, hot, white glue. When the COaf . 
thoroughly dry, the glue i s rubbed !S 
again with hne glass paper. The 
is prepared as follows: Take 3 nr^^ 3 
(more or less, according to the niii dii 
of articles) of the purest and best o 11 
dion; grind upon a clean grinding S 
twice the quantity that can be taken 6 
with the point of a knife of Krems wh't P 
with enough good pale linseed oil J 7 
necessary to grind the white smooth , !i 
fine. Take a clean bottle, into wh'k 
one-half of the collodion i s poured-t 
this add the ground white, which can h 
removed clean from the stone by ma^T 
of a good spatula and put in the bottl 3 
Add about 100 drops of linseed oil and 
shake the mass till it looks like milk! 

Now painting with this milky "s^. 
stance may be commenced, using a fine 
hair pencil of excellent quality. The 
pencil is not dipped in the large bottle- 
but a glass is kept at hand with an open- 
ing of about 1 inch, so as to be able to 
immerse the pencil quickly. The sub- 
stance is not flowing like the alcohol 
lacquers, for which reason it may be put 
on thick, for the ether, chiefly consti- 
tuting the mass, evaporates at once and 
leaves but a very thin film which becomes 
noticeable only after about 10 such 
applications have been made. Shake 
the bottle well each time before filling 
the small glass, as the heavy Krems 
white is very apt to sink to thf bottom of 
the bottle. If it is observed that the 
substance becomes too thick, which may 
easily occur on account of the evapora- 
tion, a part of the remaining ether is 
added, to which in turn 30 to 40 drops 
of oil are added, shaking it till the oil 
appears to be completely dissolved. 

The operator must put on the mass 
in quick succession and rather thick- 
After about 10 coats have been applied 
the work is allowed to rest several hours; 
then 3 or 4 coats of pure collodion, to 
which likewise several drops of oil have 
been added, are given. Another pause 
of several hours having been allowed to 
intervene, application of the mass is once 
more begun. 

When it is noticed that a layer of fh, e 
thickness of paper has formed, the arti- 
cles, after drying thoroughly, should w 
softly rubbed off with very fine gio» 
paper, after which they require to oe 
wiped off well with a clean linen rag, so 
that no dust remains. Then coating * 
continued till the work seems serviceable- 
A few applications of pure ^}° a L 6 
should be made, and when this bsS 
become 



perfectly hard, after 



few 



hours, it can be rubbed down with a rag 



PAINTS 



501 



.. and 0 fl, and polished by hand, 
tripod. an ^ r . ' T his work can be 
Iike b nlv in a room which is entirely free 
done only in * grca tcst cleanliness 

from dust - i 
£2 be observed. 

^SCELLANEOUS RECIPES, PAINTS, 

Stub Paint.^Take white keg lead 

*- ? to auv desired COl0r an Cn 7 a A 
tmt to a \y 1 nseed) to J hard 

* f i rabl body varnish. Clean the 
dr C g e o tie tub thoroughly before ap- 
S f? f the mint. Benzine or lime wash 
a P Hood cleaning agents. Coat up un 
f; a satisfactorily strong, pure color, is 
reached. This will give good gloss and 
will also wear durably. 

Coating for Name Plates. — A durable 
coating for name plates in nurseries is 
produced as follows: Take a woolen ra^ 
Kate it with joiners' polish lay it 
Sa linen one, and rub the wooden sur- 
face with this for some time Rub down 
with sandpaper and it can be written on 
almost like 'paper. When all is dry 
coat with dammar lacquer for better 
protection. If the wood is to receive a 
color it is placed in the woolen rag before 
rubbing down, in this case chrome 
yellow. 

To Keep Flies from Fresh Paint. — For 
the purpose of keeping flies and other 
insects awav from freshly painted sur- 
faces mix a little bay oil (laurel oil) with 
the oil paint, or place a receptacle con- 
taining same in the vicinity of the painted 
objects. The pungent odor keeps off 
the flies. 

Heat-Indicating Paint. — A heat-indi- 
cating paint composed of a double iodide 
of copper and mercury was first dis- 
covered years ago by a German physi- 
cist. At ordinary temperatures ^the 
paint is red, but when heated to 206° F. 
it turns black. Paper painted with this 
composition and warmed at a stove ex- 
hibits the change in a few seconds. A 
yellow double iodide of silver and mer- 
cury is even more sensitive to heat, 
changing from yellow to dark red. 

To Keep Liquid Paint in Workable 
Condition. — To prevent liquid paint 
which, for convenience sake, is kept in 
small quantities and flat receptacles, 
from evaporating and drying, give the 
vessels such a shape that they can be 
placed one on top of the other without 
danger of falling over, and provide the 
under side with a porous mass — felt or 
very porous clay, etc. — which, if mois- 



tened, will retain the water for a long 
time. Thus, in placing the dishes one 
on top of the other, a moist atmosphere is 
created around them, which will inhibit 
evaporation and drying of the paint. A 
similar idea consists in producing covers 
with a tight outside and porous inside, 
for the purpose of covering up, during 
intermission in the work, clay models 
and like objects which it is desired to 
keep soft. In order to avoid the forma- 
tion of fungous growth on the constantly 
wet bottom, it may be saturated with' 
non-volatile disinfectants, or with vola- 
tile ones if their vapors are calculated to 
act upon the objects kept underneath the 
cover. If the cover is used to cover up 
oil paints, it is moistened on the inside 
with volatile oil, such as oil of turpentine, 
oil of lavender, or with alcohol. 

Peeling of Paints". — For the preven- 
tion of peeling of new coatings on old oil 
paintings or lakes, the latter should be 
rubbed with roughly ground pumice 
stone, wet by means of felt rags, and to 
the first new coat there should be added 
fine spirit in the proportion of about 
-fLjr of the thinning necessary for stir- 
ring (turpentine, oil, etc.)- This paint 
dries well and has given good results, 
even in the most difficult cases. 1 he 
subsequent coatings are put on with the 
customary paint . Fat, oil S\??™J™ 
graining are likewise mixed with spirit 
whereby the cracking of the varnish 
coating is usually entirely obviated. 

Polychroming of Figures.— This paint 
consists of white wax 1 
dered mastic, 1 part, melt ed together 
upon the water bath and jxed witb 
rectified turpentine. The colors . 

has been employed with goo ^ 

Take unslaked wh f lime m un ^ 

cohol, and pamt the job w yj 

the spots are dry— wnuui £ ^ 

as the alcohol ^ evaporates an ^ 

TIRE PI^Rffid?^ Oil; 
2 p ^SfcV^ Cottonse-* 

0iL • m;„ mixture add just enouf 
to a new tire. 



50S 

PAINT PLASTIC: 

I quart 'flat wall paint 

1 pound plaster Paris 

8 ounces bolted whiting _ 

2 fluidounces good varnish 

Mix all together. If wanted thicker 
JftoS Rafter Paris and whiting, but 
use twice as much plaster Pans as whit- 
!S Use different colored flat wall paint 
according to the shade desired. Use best 
varnish you can obtain. 



Paper 

Paper Pads (see also Adhesives, under 
Glue). 

I @.i ue 3£ ounces 

Glycerine 8 ounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Pour upon the glue more than enough 
water to cover it and let stand for several 
hours, then decant the greater portion of 
the water; apply heat until the glue is 
dissolved, and add the glycerine. If the 
mixture is too thick, add more water. 

II. — Glue 6 ounces 

Alum 30 grams 

Acetic acid jounce 

Alcohol. . . . : 1 J ounces 

Water ounces 

Mix all but the alcohol, digest on a 
water balL till the glue is dissolved, allow 
to cool, and add the alcohol. 

„ Papier Mache.— The following are the 
ingredients necessary to make a lump of 
papier mache a little larger than an ordi- 
nary baseball and weighing 17 ounces: 

Wet paper pulp, dry paper, 1 ounce; 
water, 3 ounces; 4 ounces (avoirdupois)- 
dry plaster Paris, 8 ounces (avoirdupois) : 
™fr *i gl11, or 4 * tablespoonf uls. 
While the paper pulp is being pre- 
pared melt 5 ome best Irish glue in the 
glue pot and make it of the same thick- 

oy cabinet makers. On taking the paper 

% the t me about ^ ^ thoro ^hly- 

Plaster hav?Len u? ed ,hrr eS ■ ° f V le 
and thick that ft * \ the »asa is so dry 

Add the rentmdTo?^ ^4 

it up again until it \T gl - Ue ' work 

more, Ld then adJ 3tic . k y once 

the plaster. Squee Ze ttv^ ren } ail ] d ^ of 
Hueeze it vigorously through 



PAINTS— PAPER 



1 



the fingers to thoroughly mix the m asa 
and work it until free from l Un "J 
finely kneaded and sticky enough to art 
here to the surface of a planed board 
If it is too dry to stick fast add a f 6 S 
drops of cither glue or water, and work 
it up again. When the paper pulp £ 
poor and the mache is inclined to be 
lumpy, lay the mass upon a smooth 
board, take a hammer and pound it hard 
to grind it up fine. 

If the papier mache is not sticky enough 
to adhere firmly to whatever it is rubbed 
upon, it is a failure, and requires more 
glue. In using it the mass should be 
kept in a lump arid used as soon as 
possible after making. Keep the sur- 
face of the lump_ moist by means of a \r e t 
cloth laid over it, for if you do not, the 
surface will dry rapidly. If it i s to be 
kept overnight, or longer, wrap it up in 
several thicknesses of wet cotton cloth 
and put under an inverted bowl. If it 
is desired to keep a lump for a week, to 
use daily, add a few drops of glycerine 
when making, so that it will dry more 
slowly. 

The papier mache made according to 
this formula has the following qualities: 
When tested by rubbing between the 
thumb and finger, it was sticky and cov- 
ered the thumb with a fine coating. 
(Had it left the thumb clean, it would 
have been because it contained too 
much water.) When rubbed upon a 
pane of glass it sticks tightly and dries 
hard in 3 hours without cracking, and 
can only be removed with a knife. 
When spread in a layer as thin as writing 
paper it dries in half an hour. A mass 
actually used dried hard enough to coat 
with wax in 18 hours, and, without 
cracking, became as hard as wood; yet 
a similar quantity wrapped in a wet cloth 
and placed under an inverted bowl kept 
soft and fit for use for an entire week. 

Parchment Paper. — I.- — Dip white un 
sized pa] 
sulphuric 
and af 

little ammonia. 

II- — Plunge unsized paper for a few 
seconds into sulphuric acid diluted wrm 
half to a quarter its bulk of water (this 
solution being of the same temperature 
as the air), and afterwards wash ww» 
weak ammonia. 

Razor Paper. — I. — Smooth unsized 
paper, one of the surfaces of 
while in a slightly damp state, has Dec 
rubbed over with a mixture of eal^ 
peroxide of iron and emerv, both W 1 
palpable powder. It is "cut up ] 




PAPER 



508 



nippea (about inches), and sold in 
Sets- Used to wipe the razor on, 
which thus does not require stropping. 

TT— From emery and quartz (both in 
impalpable powder), and paper pulp 
Stimated in the dry state), equal parts 
Shinto sheets of. the, thickness of 
drawing paper, by the ordinary process. 
For use, a piece is pasted on the strop 
and moistened with a little oil. 

Safety Paper. — White paper pulp 
m i se d with an equal quantity of pulp 
tinned with any stain easily affected by 
chlorine, acids, alkalies, etc., and made 
into sheets as vaual, serves as a safety 
paper on which to write checks or the 
like Any attempt to wash out the writ- 
ing 'affects the whole surface, showing 
plainly that it has been tampered with. 

Tracing Paper.— Open a quire of 
smooth, unsized white paper, and place 
it flat upon a table. Apply, with a clean 
sash tool to the upper surface of the first 
sheet, a coat of varnish made of equal 
parts of Canada balsam and oil of tur- 
pentine, and hang the prepared sheet 
across the line to dry; repeat the opera- 
tion on fresh sheets until the proper 
quantity is finished. If not sufficiently 
transparent, a second Coat of varnish 
may be applied as soon as the first has 
become quite dry. 

Strengthened Filter Paper. — -When or- 
dinary filter paper is dipped into nitric 
acid (specific gravity, 1.42), thoroughly 
washed and dried, it becomes a tissue of 
remarkable properties, and one that de- 
serves to be better known by chemists 
and pharmacists. It shrinks somewhat 
in size and in weight, and gives, on burn- 
ing, a diminished ash. It yields no ni- 
trogen, nor does it in the slightest man- 
ner affect liquids. It remains perfectly 
pervious to liquids, its filtering properties 
being in no wise affected, which, it is 
needless to say, is very different from 
the behavior of the same paper "parch- 
mented" by sulphuric acid. It is as 
supple as a rag, yet may be very roughly 
handled, even when wet, without tearing 
or giving way. These qualities make it 
. very valuable for use in filtration under 
pressure or exhaust. It fits closely to the 
funnel, upon which it may be used direct, 
without any supports, and it thus pre- 
vents undue access of air. As to strength, 
it is increased upward of 10 times. A 
strip of ordinary white Swedish paper, 
i of an inch wide, will sustain a load of 
from J to J of a pound avoirdupois, ac- 
cording to the quality of the paper. A 
similar strin of the toughened paper 



broke, in S trials, with 5 pounds, 7 ounces, 
and 3 drachms; 5 pounds, 4 ounces, and 
30 grains; and 5 pounds, 10 ounces re- 
spectively. These are facts that deserve 
to be better known than they seem to be 
to the profession at large. 

Blotting Paper. — A new blotting paper 
which will^ completely remove wet as 
well as dry ink spots, after moistening the 
paper with water, is produced as follows: 
Dissolve 100 parts of oxalic acid in 400 
parts of alcohol, and immerse porous 
white paper in this solution untd it is 
completely saturated. Next hang the 
sheets up separately to dry over threads. 
Such paper affords ^ great advantages, 
but in its characteristic application i 
serviceable for ferric inks only, whil 
aniline ink spots cannot be removed wit 
it, after drying. 

Carbon Paper. — Many copying paper 
act by virtue of a detachable pigmen* 
which, when the pigmented paper : 
placed between two sheets of white pape 
and when the uppermost paper is wri 
ten on, transfers its pigment to the lowe 
white sheet along lines which correspon 
to those traced on the upper paper, an 
therefore gives an exact copy of them o 
the lower paper. 

The pigments used are fine soot 
ivory black, indigo carmine, ultramann 
and Paris blue, or mixtures of the" 
The pigment is intimately mixed wit 
grain soap, and then rubbed on to thi 
but strong paper with a stiff brus 
Fatty oils, such as linseed or castor oil 
may be used, but the grain soap is pre* 
enable. Graphite is frequently used 
for black copying paper. It is i rubbed 
into the paper with a cotton pad until a 
uniform Might-gray color results All 
superfluous graphite is then carefully 

br iti e sometimes desired to make a copy- 
ing paper which will produce at the same 
ime P a P positiv e copy, which is no required 

to be reproduced, ™£V!T,?umUr d 
versed copy from which a number ^ol 

is covered on one side wuu 
composition, and on the other wnn 



mix- 



40 of spir ts ot tur P^".\. ' of 40 ounces 



504 



PAPER 



acid an 



d ounces of gallic aeid, are 
. -7, rill a perfect mixture is ob- 

tamed. I*" > "J £ tne ordinary 

other side of the prepared paper consists 
the following ingredients: < 

Printers' ink 6 P 3 -™ 

Spirits of turpentine. M parts 

fc^ ow :::::: 

without saying that rollers or 



It goes Wittout saymg -- 
.tones or other hard materials may be 
used for the purpose under consideration 
Twel as paper. The manifolding 
massW be made blue with mdigotm 
«d with magenta, or violet with methyl 
violet, adding 30 ounces, of the chosen 
dye to the above quantities of pigment 
If, however, they are used, the oxide ot 
iron and gallic acids must be replaced by 
20 ounces of carbonate of magnesia. 

Celloidin Paper. — Ordinary polished 
celluloid and celloidin paper are dif- 
ficult to write upon with pen and ink. 
If, however, the face is rubbed over with 
a chalk crayon, and the dust wiped off 
with a clean rag, writing becomes easy. 

Cloth Paper. — This is prepared by 
covering gauze, calico, canvas, etc., with 
a surface of paper pulp in a Foudrinier 
machine, and then finishing the com- 
pound sheet in a nearly similar manner 
to that adopted for ordinary paper. 

Drawing Paper. — The blue drawing 
paper of commerce, which is frequently 
employed for technical drawings, is not 
very_ durable. For the production of a 
serviceable and strong drawing paper, 
the -following process is recommended. 
Mix a solution of 

Gum arable Mparts 

Ammonia iron citrate. 3 parts 
Tartaric acid % parts 

A*? in d T ater 20 parts 

amtnn.J StlU t t ddm ? 4 .P arts of solution of 
ammonia with a solution of 

Potassium ferricyamde 2.5 parts 



the p a p er bv m i;K y f he P/^^on on 
tificial light 53 \a\ ° f - a 5? ft brush ' » ar- 
expose tfr Da ^ r t y r m i. U d - ark ' Ne ^, 

dark violet P pTc c n t^l !? 
„;„ „ _,_ ^ ac e in water for 10 seconds, 



water, and 



y ai P m a solution of 
*jau de javelle « rt 
Distilled water ' * " i nn2 Parts 
«tfl it turns daxTbiue' ,00 ° 



I 



Filter Paper. — This process conaisic • 
dipping the paper in nitric acid of l i£ 
specific gravity, subsequently Washing 
W ell and drying it. The paper thS- 
by acquires advantageous qualities ft 
shrinks a little and loses in weight wh'l 
on burning only a small quantity ' 0 f ^' l 
remains. It possesses no traces of nitr 
gen and does not in any way attack iu" 
fiquid to be filtered. Withal, t^M 
remains perfectly pervious for th 



us 



Paper 

varying liquids, and its fiheringTapfcX 
is in no wise impaired. It is difficult to 
tear, and still elastic and flexible liU 
linen. It clings completely to the funnel 
In general it may be said that the 
strength of the filtering paper th 
treated increases 100 per cent. 

Fireproof Papers. — L — Ammonium 
sulphate, 8 parts, by weight; boracie 
acid, 3 parts; borax, 2 parts; water, 100 
parts. The temperature should be about 
122° F. 

II. — For paper, either printed or im- 
printed, bills of exchange, deeds, books, 
etc., the following solution is recom- 
mended: Ammonium sulphate, 8 parts; 
boracie acid, 3 parts; sodium borate, 
1.7 parts; water, 10,000 parts. The so- 
lution is heated to 122° F., and may be 
used when the paper is manufactured. 
As soon as the paper leaves the machine 
it is passed through this solution, then 
rolled over a warm cylinder and dried. 
If printed or in sheets, it is simply im- 
mersed in the solution, at a temperature 
of 122° F., and spread out to dry, finally 
pressed to restore the luster. 

Hydrographic Paper. — This is paper 
which may be written on with simple 
water or with some colorless liquid hav- 
ing the appearance of water. 

I. — A mixture of nut galls, 4 parts, and 
calcined sulphate of iron, 1 part (both 
perfectly dry and reduced to very fine 
powder), is rubbed over the surface of 
the paper, and is then forced into its 
pores by powerful pressure, after which 
the loose portion is brushed off. J- n ® 
writing shows black when a pen dipped 
m water is used. 

II. — A mixture of persulphate of n*o° 
and ferrocyanide of potassium, may. De 



employed 
blue. 



as in 



formula I. This writes 



Sal ammoniac afld 
ch 1 



of eai 



Iridescent Paper.— 
sulphate of indigo, 

sulphate of iron, 5 parts; nut ga 
parts; gum arabic, * part. Boil « eI ? 

water, and expose the paper wa«M 

■with the liquid to (the fumes ot) 
monia. 



am" 



PAPER 



505 



Lithographic Paper. — I . Starch , 6 
«,m'pes- ffum arabic, 9, ounces; alum, 1 
nance' ' Make a strong solution of each 

-noratelv in hot water, mix, strain 
Sough gauze, and apply it while still 
So 5ne side of leaves of paper, with 
Jclean painting brush or sponge; a seC- 

nd anJ a third coat must be given as 
the preceding one becomes dry. Ihe 
paper must be, lastly, pressed, to make 
it smooth, 

Ti ^Give the paper 3 coats of thm 
«ze ' 1 coat of good white starch, and 1 
coat of a solution of gamboge in water, 
the whole to be applied cold with a 
sp0 nge, and each coat to be allowed to 
dry before the other is applied. Ihe 
solutions should be freshly made. 

Lithographic paper is written on with 
lithographic ink. The writing is trans- 
ferred simply by moistening the back or 
the paper, placing it evenly on the stone 
and then applying pressure. A reversed 
copy is obtained, which, when printed 
from, yields corrected copies resembling 
the original writing or drawing. In this 
way the necessity of executing the writ- 
ing or drawing in a reversed direction is 
obviated. 

MARBLING PAPER FOR BOOKS. 

Provide a wooden trough % inches deep 
and the length and width of any desired 
sheet; boil in a brass or copper pan a 
quantity of linseed and water until a 
thick mucilage is formed; strain it mto 
a trough, and let cool; then grind on a 
marble slab any of the following colors 
in small beer: 

For Blue. — Prussian blue or indigo. 

Red. — Rose pink, vermilion, or drop 
lake. 

Yellow. — King's yellow, yellow ocher, 
etc. 

White.— Flake white. 

Black. — Burnt ivory or lampblack. 

Brown. — Umber, burnt; terra di 
sienna, burnt. 

Black mixed with yellow or red also 
makes brown. 

Green. — Blue and yellow mixed. 

Orange. — Red and yellow mixed. 

Purple. — Red and blue mixed. 

For each color have two cups, one for 
the color after grinding, the other to mix 
it with ox gall, which must be used to 
thin the colors at discretion. If too 
much gall is used, the colors will spread. 
"When they keep their place on the sur- 
face of the trough, -when moved with a 
quill, they are fit for use, AH things in 



readiness, the colors are successively 
sprinkled on the surface of the mucilage 
in the trough with a brush, and are waved 
or drawn about with a quill or a stick, 
according to taste. When the design is 
just formed, the book, tied tightly be- 
tween cutting boards of the same size, is 
lightly pressed with its edge on the sur- 
face of the liquid pattern, and then with- 
drawn and dried. The covers may be 
marbled in the same way, only letting the 
liquid colors run over them. In mar- 
bling paper the sides of the paper are gent- 
ly applied to the colors in the trough. 
The film of color in the trough may be as 
thin as possible, and if any remains after 
the marbling it may be taken off by ap- 
plying paper to it before you prepare 
for marbling again. To diversify the 
effects, colors are often mixed with a 
little sweet oil before sprinkling them on, 
by which means a light halo or circl 
appears around each spot. 

WATERPROOF PAPERS. 

I, — Wall papers may be easily ren 
dered washable, either before or afte 
they are hung, by preparing them in the 
following manner: Dissolve 2 parts of 
borax and 2 parts of shellac in 24 parts 
of water, and strain through a fine cloth. 
With a brush or a sponge apply this to 
the surface of the paper, and when it l 
dry, polish it to a high gloss with a soft 
brush. Thus treated the paper may be 
washed without fear of removing the 
even smearing or blurring 



or 



colors 
them. 

IX This is recommended for drawing 

paper. Any kind of paper is lightly primed 
with glue or a suitable binder to which a 
finely powdered inorganic body, such as 
zinc white, chalk, lime, or heavy spar as 
well as the desired coloring matter for the 
paper, are added. Next the paper thus 
Treated is coated with "luble gU~£ 
silicate of potash or of soda -^ w ££ 

K.'and dried for about U days^n 
a temperature of J7 A. r » 

be washed oil sJU or muie ■ .il ^net 

can be worked on a S «m at once. 

to - p.ner —I —Place cartridge paper, 




PAPER 



j u ;+ wll with a lump of 
&t%£ ^aed ' to extempora ; 

6S ofveSeS ffd o«r pot. etc 

joints * product ion of waxed or 

wit h equal parg of steanne a^ 

tef^^~af£prevcnt 
the aniline color from spreading. 

Wramjin*: Paper for Silverware.— 
Male a P so!ution of 6 parts of sodium 
hydrate in sufficient water to make t 
show about 20° B. (specific gravity 1.60 . 
To it add 4 parts zinc oxide and bo 1 
together untif the latter is dissolved 
Now add sufficient water to reduce the 
specific gravity of the solution to 1.07 j 
: The bath is now ready for 



(10 
use 



B.). 



Dip each sheet separately, and 
hang on threads stretched across the 
room, to dry. Be on your guard agains t 
dust, as particles of sand adhering to the 
paper will scratch the ware wrapped m it. 
Ware, either plated or silver, wrapped in 
this paper, will not blacken. 

Varnished Paper. — Before proceeding 
to varnish paper, card-work, pasteboard, 
etc., it is necessary to give it 2 or 3 coats 
of size, to prevent the absorption of the 
varnish, and any injury to the color or 
design. The size may be made by dis- 
solving a little isinglass in boiling water, 
or by boiling some clean parchment cut- 
tings until they form a clear solution, 
This, after being strained through a 
piece of clean muslin, or, for very nice 
purposes, clarified with a little white 
of egg is applied by means of a small 
dean brush called by painters a sash 
tool. A light, delicate touch must be 
adopted, especially for the first coat, lest 

wt £ r C ° lorS be startcd or smothered. 
When the prepared surface is quite dry 
it may be varnished. ^ 

Varnish.-- For the protection of impor- 
Cnc P e? of ST"? .^ructiv^ 
fun? and liiS l^ 03 ^' of water 
the^consequfnees of ^ iaSt 



«* Some t mesuTrf„° f a brush or P«£ 
reached by dri£&V^° B ? W also be 
the maffil °f sprmkhn g it on, 
^ the sheets wllb^thl^ 3 ^ a P^ting 
1 be tne simplest method 



Zapon in a liquid state is highly i n 
flammable, for which reason duxino +£' 
application until the evaporation of +V 
solvent, open flames and fires should h 
kept away from the vicinity. When t E 
drying is finished, which usually takes ! 
few hours where both sides are coated 
the zaponized paper does not so easih 
ignite at an open flame any more or a* 
least not more readily than non-h 
pregnated paper. For coating Yfith and 
especially for dipping in zapon, a C0Q , 
tnvance which effects a convenient sus" 
pension and dripping off with collection 
of the excess is of advantage. 

The zapon should be thinned accori 
ing to the material to be treated. p ee 
bly sized papers are coated with ordinarj 
i. e., undiluted zapon. For dipping p ui 
poses, the zapon should be mixed with 
diluent, if the paper is hard and weL 
sized. The weaker the sizing, the more 
careful should be the selection of tl 
zapon. 

Zapon to be used for coating purposes 
should be particularly thick, so that it 
can be thinned as desired. Unsized 
papers require an undiluted coating. 

The thick variety also furnishes an 
excellent adhesive agent as cement for 
wood, glass, porcelain, and metals 
which is insoluble in cold and hot water, 
and binds very firmly. Metallic sur- 
faces coated with zapon do not oxidize or 
alter their appearance, since the coating 
is like glass and only forms a very thin 
but firmly adhering" film, which, if ap- 
plied on pliable sheet metal, does not 
crack on bending. 

For the preparation of zapon the fol- 
lowing directions are given: Pour 20 
parts of acetone over 2 parts of colorless 
celluloid waste — obtainable at the cellu- 
loid factories — and let stand several days 
in a closed vessel, shaking frequently, 
until the whole has dissolved into a clear, 
thick mass. Next admix 78 parts of amy! 
acetate and completely clarify the zapon 
varnish by allowing to settle forweeks. 

Slate Parchment.— Soak good paper 
with linsecd-oil varnish (boiled oil) • *** a 
apply the following mass, mentioned be- 
low, several times in succession: Cop 
varnish, 1 part , by weight; turpentine 
oil, % parts; finest sprinkling sand, 1 p»«» 
powdered glass, 1 part; ground slate a 
used for slates, % parts; and lamp™*™} • 
1 part, intimately mixed together, jd 
repeatedly ground verv fine. u e 
drying and hardening, the plates can " 
written upon with lead or slate pencil 

Paper Floor Covering— The floor 
carefully cleaned, and all holes * 



P APER— P ARAPFINE 



507 



j s are filled up with a mass which 
? Squared by saturating newspapers 
Zitl* paste that is made by mixing 
T V^v 17* ounces wheat flour, 
fxTquar^ wL, and 1 spoonful of 
Wverled alum. The floor is coated 
Sh this paste throughout, and covered 
1 layer of man ilia paper, or other 
S ong heLp paper. If something very 
durable is desired, paint the paper layer 
S the same paste and put on another 
laver of paper, leaving it to dry thor- 
oughly Wen apply another coat of 
mfte and upon this place wall paper of 
desired W In order to protect 
?W wall paper from wear, give it % or 
more ? Soafs of a solution of 8 ounces 
white glue in 2.H quarts hot water, a ow 
tlem to dry, and finish the job with a 
coating of hard oil varnish- 

METALLIC PAPER. 

This paper, made by transferring, past- 
ing or painting a coating of metal on 
ordinary paper, retains a comparatively 
dull aiid dead appearance even alter 
glazing or polishing with the burnisher 
or agate. Galvanized or electroplated 
metal paper, on the other hand, in which 
the metal has penetrated into the most 
minute pores of the paper, possesses an 
extraordinarily brilliant polish, fully 
equal to that of a piece of compact 
polished metal. It is much more ex- 
tensively used than the kind first men- 
tioned. 

The following solutions are Recom- 
mended for making "galvanized" metal 
paper: 

I. — For silver paper: Twenty parts 
argento-cyanide of potassium; 13 parts 
cyanide of potassium ; 980 parts water. 

II. — For gold paper: Four parts a,uro- 
cyanide of potassium; 9 parts cyanide of 
potassium; 900 parts water. 

Moth Paper. — 

Naphthalene 4 ounces 

Paraffme wax 8 ounces 

Melt together and while warm paint 
unsized paper and pack away with the 
goods. 

Lead Paper. — Lay rough drawing 
paper (such as contains starch) on an 
8 per cent potassium iodide solution. 
After a moment take it out and dry. 
Next, in a dark room, float the paper 
face downward on an 8 per cent lead ni- 
trate solution. This sensitizes the paper. 
Dry again. The paper is now ready for 
printing. This process should be car- 
ried on till all the detail is out in a gruyish 
color. Then develop in a 10 per cent 



ammonium chloride solution. The tones 
obtained are of a fine blue black. 

Aluminum Paper. — Aluminum paper 
is not leaf aluminum, but real paper 
glazed with aluminum powder. It is 
said to keep food materials fresh. The 
basic material is artificial parchment, 
coated with a solution of rosin in alcohol 
or ether, After drying, the paper is 
warmed until the rosin has again sof- 
tened to a slight degree. The aluminum 
powder is dusted on and the paper then 
placed under heavy pressure to force 
the powder firmly into it. The metallic 
coating thus formed is not affected by 
air or greasy substances. 



PAPER (ANTI-RUST) FOR NEEDLES ; 

See Rust Preventives. 

PAPER CEMENTS: 
See Adhesives. 

PAPER DISINFECTANT: 

See Disinfectants. 

PAPER, FIREPROOF: 

See Fireproofing- 

PAPER, FROSTED: 

See Glass (Frosted), 
PAPER ON GLASS TO AFFIX: 

See Adhesives, under Water-Glass La- 
ments. 

PAPERS, IGNITING: 

See Pyrotechnics. 
PAPER ON METALLIC SURFACES, 
PASTING: 
See Adhesives. 
PAPER AS PROTECTION FOR IROfl 
AND STEEL: 
See Rust Preventives. 

P APERH ANGERS' PASTES: 

See Adhesives. 
PAPER, PHOTOGRAPHIC: 

See Photography. 
PAPER VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 
PAPER WATERPROOFING: 
See Waterproofing. 

PAPIER MACHE: 
See Paper. 

S5£ 23fi°2£3k •» * dLg a 



PARAFFINE — PASSE-PARTOUT FRAMING 



508 

suitable mixture is ^ j_ f b t 

I SSJ'i S£ I. P The material 
way. 

Removal of Dirt from Paraffine.— Fil- 
traS tlrough felt will usually remove 
particles of foreign matter from parat 
goe. It may be necessary to use _a layer 
of fine sand or of infusorial earth It 
discolored by any soluble ,^e^ % 
freshly heated anirna charcoal. 1 o keep 
he paraffine fluid, if a large qua nti v is 
to be handled, a jacketed funnel will .be 
required, either steam or hot water being 
kept in circulation in the jacket. 
Paraffine Scented Cakes. 

Paraffine, 1 ounce; white petrolatum, 
2 ounces; heliotropin, 10 grains; oil of 
bergamot, 5 drops; oil of lavender, 5 drops; 
oil of cloves, 2 drops. Melt the first two 
substances, then add the next, the oils 
last, and stir all until cool. After settling 
cut into blocks and wrap in tin foil. This 
is a disseminator of perfume. It per- 
fumes where it is rubbed. It kills moths 
and perfumes the wardrobe. It is used 
by rubbing on cloth, clothes, and the 
handkerchief. 



PARCHMENT AND PARCHMENT 
PAPER: 

See Paper. 

PARCHMENT CEMENT: 

See Adhesives. 

PARCHMENT PASTE: 

See Adhesives. 

PARFAITS : 

See Ice Creams. 

PA . RF ^J D' AMOUR CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

Paris green : 

See Pigments. 
PARIS RED: 

See Polishes. 

Paris salts- 

See Disinfectants. 

* A * SS i J S CEMENT: 

oee Adhesives 

PASSE-PARTOUT FRAMING 

^iS^. 10 the p asse . 

e * aa lt 18 m "ely a binding 



I th Q 



together of the print, the g lass , 
backing with a narrow edge of " 
This simple arrangement lends t P< l - 
piclure when complete a much eV the 
finish and a more important an D ^? Uter 
than might be anticipated ^ car aiice 

In regard to the making of a 
partout frame the first th.ng ls to Jgj 
as to the width ot the mount or matt t k 
used. In some cases,- ot course ♦£* 
print is framed with no mount beinc v • 
hie; but, unless the picture ig ot Is 
size, it will usually be found more 
coming to have one., especially s h 0u u 
the wall paper be ot an obtrusive desie 
When the print and mount are both 
neatly trimmed to the desired size n r 
cure a piece of clear white picture glkss-^I 
most amateur framers will have* dis 
covered that there is a variance in the 
quality of this — and a piece ot stout card- 
board, both of exactly the same dimen- 
sions as the picture. Next prepare or 
buy the paper to be used tor binding the 
edges together. This may now be 
bought at most all stationery stores in a 
great variety of colors. If it is prepared 
at home a greater choice of colors is 
available, and it is by no means a diffi- 
cult task with care and sharp scissors. 
The tint should be chose n to harmonize 
with the print and the mount, taking also 
into consideration the probable sur- 
roundings — brown for photogiaphs of 
brown tone, dark gray for black, pale 
gray for lighter tones; dark green is also 
a good color. All stationers keep col- 
ored papers suitable for the purpose, 
while plain wall papers or thin brown 
paper answers equally well. 

Cut the paper, ruling it carefully, into 
even strips an inch wide, and then into 
four pieces, two of them the exact length 
of the top and bottom of the frame, and 
the other two half an inch longer than 
the two sides. Make sure that the prmt 
is evenly sandwiched between the glass 
and the back. Cut some tiny strips of 
thin court-plaster, and with these bind the 
corners tightly together. Brush over the 
two larger pieces of paper with mount- 
ant, and with them bind tightly together 
the three thicknesses— print, glass, ana 
cardboard— allowing the paper to pro- 
ject over about a third of an inch on 
the face side, and the ends which were 
left a little longer must be neatly turn** 
over an d stuck at the back. Then. » 
tne same manner, bind the top and DOi 
torn edges together, inhering the corner 
neatly, 

It should not be forgotten, before 
binding the edges together, to m»k»"2 
slits m the cardboard back for the p^ 



PASTES — PERFUMES 



509 



nnse of inserting little brass hangers, 
Ktinir flat ends like paper fasteners, 
SS13 may be bought for the purpose; 
£ whS these are not available two 
narrow loops of tape may be used in- 
stead, sticking the ends hrmly on the 
inS of the cardboard by means of a 
little strong glue. . . 

These ire the few manipulations 
nwessary for the making of a simple 
SSse-partout frame, but there are num- 
berless variations of the idea, and a great 
Seal of variety may be obtained by means 
of using different .mounts. Brown paper 
answers admirably as a mount for some 
subjects, using strips of paper of a darker 
shade as binding. A not too obtrusive 
design in pen and ink is occasionally 
drawn on the mount, while a more am- 
bitious scheme is to use paint and brushes 
in the same way. An ingenious idea 
which suils some subjects is to use a piece 
of hand-blocked wall paper as a mount. 

PARQUET POLISH: 

See Polishes. 

PASTES : 

See Adhesives for Adhesive Purposes. 

Pastes, Razor, — I. — From jewelers' 
rouge, plumbago, and suet, equal parts, 
melted together and stirred until cold. 

II. — From prepared putty powder 
(levigated oxide of tin), 3 parts; lard, 
2 parts; crocus martis, 1 part; triturated 
together. 

III. — Prepared putty powder, 1 ounce; 

Sowdered oxalic acid, i ounce; pow- 
ered gum, 20 grains; make a stiff paste 
with water, quantity sufficient, and 
evenly and thinly spread it over the strop, 
the other side of which should be covered 
with any of the common greasy mixtures. 
With very little friction this paste gives 
a fine edge to the razor, and its action is 
still further increased by slightly mois- 
tening it, or even breathing on it. Im- 
mediately after its use, the razor should 
receive a few turns on the other side of 
the strop. 

PASTE FOR PAPER: 

See Paper. 

PASTES FOR POLISHING METALS: 

See Soaps. 

PASTEBOARD CEMENT : 

See Adhesives. 

PASTEBOARD DEODORIZERS: 

See Household Formulas. 



PASTILLES, FUMIGATING: 

See Fumigants. 

PATINAS : 

See Bronzing and Plating. 

PATENT LEATHER: 

See Leather. 

PEACH EXTRACT: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

PEARLS, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

PEGAMOID. 

Camphor, 100 parts; mastic, 100 
parts; bleached shellac, 50 parts; gun 
cotton, 200 parts; acetone, 200 parts; 
acetic ether, 100 parts; ethylic ether, 50 
parts. 

This is used by bookbinders to glaze 
and harden the cardboard used for cov- 
ers. 

PELLETS FOR TOOTH-ACHE: 

Paraffine wax 47 grains 

Burgundy pitch 400 grains 

Oil cloves 15 mimrms 

Creosote ■ 15 minums 

Melt the wax and the Burgundy pitch 
together and when nearly cool, add the 
oil of cloves and creosote. Stir in thor- 
oughly. When congealed roll into pill- 
like masses and wrap in bits of wax 
paper. Press one of these pellets mto 
cavity of aching tooth which will stop 
pain at once. 

PERCENTAGE SOLUTION. 

Multiply the percentage by 5; the prod- 
uct is the number of grains to be added 
to an ounce of water to make a solution 
of the desired percentage. This is cor- 
rect for anything less than 15 per cent. 



Perfumes 

DRY PERFUSES* 
Sachet Powders. — 
I— Orris root Jounces 

Musk SO grams 

Terpinol 6(1 grain. 

SSg: 

Musk 6 S rains 



10 

tavender Sachets.— 
I —Lavender flowers 

Gum benzoin - drachms 

Oil la vender ^ 

jl, — Lavender 



PERFUMES 

II. — Starch 5,000 



"Neugenwerz, 50 pan , illa , 60 

50 parts; cinnamon ^0 parts ^ 
parts; and musk, } part, 
finely and mixed. 
Violet Sachet. — . 

Essence bouquet... 10 parts 

Violet extract SO parte 

Oil of bergamot. .. J parts 

Oil of rose S P artS 

Borated Talcum. — 

I. — Purified talcum, 

N. F ^ pounds 

Powdered boric acid 1 ounce 
To perfume add the following: 

Powered orris root . . 1 £ ounces 
Extract jasmine .... 2, drachms 
Extract musk 1 drachm 

II. — A powder sometimes dispensed 
Tinder this name is the salicylated pow- 
der of talcum of the National Formulary, 
which contains in every 1,000 parts 30 
parts of salicylic acid and 100 parts of 
boric acid. 

Rose. — 

I. — Cornstarch 9 

Powdered talc. .... . 1 

Oil of rose 80 

Extract musk 2 

Extract jasmine .... 6 

U ■ — Potatostarch 9 

Powdered talc 1 

Oil rose 43 



Extract jasmine . 
Rose Talc. — 

I. — Powdered talc. . . 

Oil rose 

Oil wintergreen . 
Extract jasmine . 

. — Powdered talc. fr 
Oil 



pounds 
pound 
drops 
drachms 
drachms 

pounds 
pound 
drops 
ounce 



5 pounds 
50 drops 
4 drops 
2 ounces 

pounds 



O 32 drops 

9 l[ J*smme 4 ounces 



1 ounce 



Extract musk 
Violet Talc— 

^" — 'Powdered tnl/» 1 » 

Extract jasSine"" t ° unce 



parts 

Orris root 1,000 part. 

Oil of lemon 14. 



Oil of bergamot . . 
Oil of clove, 



14 



parts 
Parts 



4 parts 

Smelling Salts. — I. — Fill small gk t 
having ground stopper with p i ece ; 
sponge free from sand and satu 
■with a mixture of spirit of sal ammonia" 
(0.910), 9 parts arid oil of lavender ? 
part. Or else fall the bottles with small 
dice of ammonium sesquicarbouate and 
pour the above mixture over thera. 
II, — Essential oil of lav- 
ender 18 parts 

Attar of rose g p art3 

Ammonium car- 
bonate 480 parts 

Violet Smelling Salts. — I. — Moisten 
coarsely powdered ammonia carbonate, 
contained in a suitable bottle, with a 
mixture of concentrated tincture of 
orris root, 2^ ounces; aromatic spirit 
of ammonia, 1 drachm; violet extract, 3 
drachms. 

II. — Moisten the carbonate, and add 
as much of the following solution as it 
will absorb: Oil of orris, 5 minims; oil 
of lavender flowers, 10 minims; violet 
extract, 30 minims; stronger water of 
ammonia, £ fluidounces. 

To Scent Advertising Matter, etc.— 

The simplest way of perfuming printed 
matter, such as calendars, cards, etc., is 
to stick them in strongly odorous sachet 
powder. Although the effect of a strong 
perfume is obtained thereby, there is a 
large loss of powder, which clings to the 
printed matter. Again, there are often 
little spots which are due to the essential 
oils added to the powder. . 

Another way of perfuming, which is 
used especially in France for scenting 
cards and other articles, is to dip then ." 
very strong "extraits d'odeur, ' eav J ?® 
them therein for a few days. Then the 
cards are taken out and laid between bj 
tering paper, whereupon they are pre - 
vigorously, which causes them n °W e | 
to dry, but also to remain straight _ 
remain under strong pressure until 
pletely dry. be 
Not all car dboard, however, j{g 
subjected to this process, and 
choi 
ing 
the 



in 

funi" 




the glaze. It is also preferable » the 
lithographed text on them, sine fte n 

case of ordinary printing the Jett e &Te 
partly disappear - col ° 
changed. 



havf 



the 



PERFUMES 



511 



v or pocket calendars, price lists, and 

i Vinous matter containing more 
voluminous m hcr oce 

lea ves tha " d ° j* n a tight closet, which 
*f °JidS S'd with ti| so that little air 
^ enter, tobies composed of laths are 
C f Ton which nets stretched on frames 
Cover these nets with tissue 

are iam- 



*" T andVroceed ^"follows: On the 
paper, and P™^ fc nnk l e a strongly 

S& a. d 6 returned powder; then 
odorous « i printed matter 

SSiS&ifdSa shove P it to the closet 
th? lath The next net again re- 
ives powd r, the following one printed 
Serf and so on until the closet » 
gfed After tightly closing the doors, 
?l e whole arrangement » left to itself. 
This process presents another advantage 
in that all sorts of residues may be em- 
Soyed for scenting, such as the filters 
of the odors and infusions residues of 
mnsk etc. These are simply laid on the 
nets, and will thus impart their perfume 
to the printed matter. t 

Such a scenting powder is produced. 

as follows: , 

By weight 

Iris powder, finely 

ground 5,000 parts 

Residues of musk. . 1,000 parts 



Vlaiig-ylang oil. 
Bergamot oil . . . 
Artificial musk . 
Ionone 



10 parts 
50 parts 
2 parts 
.2 to 5 parts 



lOUUIlB — - I 

Tincture of benzoin 100 parts 
The powder may subsequently be 
employed for filling cheap sachets, etc. 

LIQUID PERFUMES : 

Coloring Perfumes.— Chlorophyll is a 
suitable agent for coloring liquid per- 
fumes green. Care must be taken to pro- 
cure an article freely soluble in the men- 
struum. As found in the market it is 
prepared (in form of solutions )_ for use 
in liquids strongly alcoholic; in water 
or weak alcohol; and in oils. Aniline 
greens of various kinds will answer the 
same purpose, but in a trial of any one of 
these it must be noted that very small 
quantities should be used, as their tinc- 
torial power is so great that liquids in 
which they are incautiously used may 
stain the handkerchief. 

Color imparted by chlorophyll will be 
found fairly permanent; this term is a 

rnlr> + 5,rn a« a „ A *i t tr,A -milf-ll TT1 11 St 



relative one, and not too much must be 
expected. Colors which may suffer but. 
little change by long exposure to diffused 
light may "fade perceptibly by short ex- 
posure to the direct light of the sun. 

Chlorophyll may be purchased or it 
may be prepared as follows: Digest 



leaves of grass, nettles, spinach, or other 
green herb in warm water until soft; 
pour off the water and crush the herb to 
a pulp. Boil the pulp for a short time 
with a half per cent solution of caustic 
soda, and afterwards precipitate the 
chlorophyll by means of dilute hydro- 
chloric acid; wash the precipitate thor- 
oughly with water, press and dry it, and 
use as much for the solution as may be 
necessary. Or a tincture made from 
grass as follows may be employed: 

Lawn crass, cut fine. . % ounces . 

Alcohol..... 16 ounces 

Put the grass in a wide-mouthed bottle* 
and pour the alcohol upon it. After 
standing a few days, agitating occasion- 
ally, pour off the liquid. The tincture 
may be used with both alcoholic anc 
aqueous preparations. 

Among the anilines, spirit solubh 
malachite green has been recommended. 

A purple or violet tint may be pro- 
duced by using tincture of litmus or am- 
moniated cochineal coloring. The foi 
mer is made as follows: 

Litmus H ounces 

Boiling water 16 ounces 

Alcohol 3 ounces 

Pour the water upon the litmus, st: 
well, allow to stand for about an houi 
stirring occasionally, filter, and to tr 
filtrate add the alcohol. _ 

The aniline colors "Pans violet 
methyl violet B may be similarly em- 
ployed. The amount necessary to .pro- 
duce a desired tint must be worked out 
by experiment. Yellow tints may best 
be imparted by the use of tincture .off 
turmeric or saffron, fustic, W^Znll' 
If a perfumed spirit, as, for instance, 
a mouth wash, is poured into a w ne- 
glassful of water, the ^1 separate 
at once and Bgead ^ the .urf.ee of 

correctly, it is pessary { s at 
glasses and to conduct tn be 

certain intervals ine^, sfet 
numbered according to tae 0 ified ^ 

up, bo that they may ^ rad^ & 

If we assume for ^P^emay 
mouth wash is to ^be exam! , ^ 

P M ^ bly „RuK of abSt 100 grams of 
week a ™» x t" re , °* of t he respective 



rise 



512 

ferent odor, accoroint thege 

3JS bHbl JSSl'SS by their odor, 
° the predominance of peppermint oil- 
to continue with the above example 
t;il Noon be lost and other oils will n 

'eS tL' other, tc . disappear g 
after a short time, so that the 7 giaa sea 
afford an entire scale of characteristic 
odors, until at last only the most -lasting 
are perceptible. Thus it is possible with 
somrpraetice to tell a bouquet pretty 
accurately in its separate odors. 

In this manner interesting results are 
often reached, and with some persever- 
ance even complicated mixtures can be 
analyzed and recognized in their dis- 
tinctiveness. Naturally the difficulty in 
recognizing each oil is increased in the 
case of oils whose volatility is approxi- 
mately the same. But even in this case 
changes, though not quite so marked, 
can be determined in the bouquet. 

In a quantitative respect this method 
also furnishes a certain result as far as 
the comparison of perfumed liquids is 
concerned. 

According to the quantity of the oils 
present the dim zone on the water is 
broader or narrower, and although the 
size of this layer may be changed by the 
admixture of other substances, one gains 
an idea regarding the quantity of the oils 
by mere smelling. It is necessary, of 
course, to choose glasses with equally 
large openings and to count out the drops 
of the essence carefully by means of a 
oropper. 

Pi- of the different varied ^ 



PERFUMES 



l^J" 1 ™ ah W alcoholic dilu- 

5 

easy to add more~h,"itT™ cuc V 
away. re ' but ,m Possible to take 

linruethismethod requires patien 
ana a tine 

^f:Z±^™™ *<™ld be 



perseverance anrfofT patience, 
One smellin ' w u *, e , sense of smell 
tes i ^ould not be consid- 
\ but t}le glasses should 
^ose as often as possible 

^e choice of thf (?vS '^ ery . hes 



Wlodora. Thea ff !l t a ? d hold the 
6 a § ents formerly em- 



ployed were musk, civet, and amber, 
all having a heavy and dull animal r. l 



or, 



diich is the direct antithesis of 
Jagrance., A free use of these \Z] 
must inevitably mean a perEume xffi 
requires a label to tell what it is bt*«!r? 



require «, — « UiU u ls lnt 

for, to say nothing of what it is. To 3 
there is no evidence that the last of th 
(ambergris) is being used at all i a f? e 
newer perfumes, and the other two I 
employed very sparingly, if a t y.]^ r^J* 
result is that the newer perfumes posse* 
a fragrance and a fidelity to the flower 
that they imitate which is far superior 
the older perfumes. Yet the newer n er 
fume is quite as prominent and lasting as 
the old, while it is more pleasing, u 
contains the synthetic odors, with'bal 
sams or rosinous bodies as fixatives, and 
employs musk and civet only in the 'most 
sparing manner in some of the more sen- 
sitive odors. As a fixing agent benzoin 
is to be recommended. Only the best 
variety should be used, the Siamese, which 
costs 5 or G times as much as that from 
Sumatra- The latter has a coarse pun- 
gent odor. 

Musk is depressing, _ and its use in 
cologne in even the minutest quantity 
will spoil the cologne. The musk lingers 
after the lighter odors have disappeared, 
and a sick person is pretty sure to feel 
its effects. Persons in vigorous health 
will not notice the depressing effects of 
musk, but when lassitude prevails these 
are very unpleasant. Moreover, it is not 
a necessity in these toilet accessories, 
either as a blending or as a fixing agent. 
Its place is better supplied by benzoin 
for both purposes. 

As to alcohol, a lot of nonsense has 
been written about the necessity of ex- 
treme care in selecting it, such as certain 
kinds requiring alcohol made from 
grapes and others demanding extreme 
purification, etc. A reasonable attention 
to a good quality of alcohol, even at a 
slight increase in cost, will always pay, 
but, other things being equal, a good 
quality of oils in a poor quality of alconoi 
will give far better satisfaction than tne 



ui "t uLiicj. luijj^s oeing cuum, — n 
quality of oils in a poor quality of alco 
will give far better satisfaction than 
opposite combination. The public is no 
composed of ex-acting connoisseurs, an 
it docs not appreciate extreme care : 
expense in either particular. A go 
grade of alcohol, reasonably free ttm 
heavy and lingering foreign odors, 
answer practically all the requirement ■ 

General Directions for Making p ^ 
fumes.— It is absolutely essential W j 
taming the best results to see thai 
vessels are perfectly clean. AjwaJ* by 
Ploy alcohol, 90 per cent, deodorizea 



PERFUMES 



513 



„« of charcoal. When gram musk is 
mC T^ln ingredient in liquid perfumes, 
2 S !f rub down with pumice stone then 
first iud u for 2 Qr 3 

SVadd to alcohol. The addition of 
£s minims of acetic acid will improve 
3or / Also prevent accumulation 
th < e mf CWet and ambergris should 
° N i thoroughly rubbed down with 
^e b colt powLr, and transferred 

^Sefd's^ptdt^bark rhizomes, etc., 
should be cut up in small pieces or pow- 

de Ferfume S improve by storing It is a 
n A nlan to tie over the mouth of the 
g ^tainine vessel some fairly thick nor- 
oufmatefial, and to allow the vessel to 
stand for a week or two in a cool place, 
instead of corking at once. . 

It is perhaps unnecessary to add that 
as large a quantity as possible should be 
de anted, and then the residue filtered. 
This obviously prevents loss by evapora- 
tion Talc or kieselguhr (amorphous 
Si0i) are perhaps the best substances to 
add to the filter in order to render hquid 
perfumes bright and clear, and more 
especially necessary in the case of aro- 
matic vinegars. m , . 

The operations involved m making per- 
fumes are simple; the chief thing to be 
learned, perhaps, is to judge of the quality 
of materials. , . 

The term "extract," when used m 
most formulas, means an alcoholic solu- 
tion of the odorous principles of certain 
flowers obtained by enfluerage; that is, 
the flowers are placed in contact with pre- 
pared grease which absorbs the odorous 
matter, and this grease is in turn macer- 
ated with alcohol which dissolves out the 
odor. A small portion of the grease is 
taken up also at ordinary temperatures; 
tliis is removed by filtering the ' ex- 
tract" while "chilled" by a freezing mix- 
ture. The extracts can be either pur- 
chased or made directly from the pomade 
(as the grease is called). To employ the 
latter method successfully some experi- 
ence may be necessary. 

The tinctures are made with 95 per 
cent deodorized alcohol, enough men- 
struum being added through the marc 
when filtering to bring the finished prep- 
aration to the measure of the menstruum 
originally taken. 

The glycerine is intended to act as a 
"fixing" agent — that is, to lessen the 
volatility of the perfumes. 

Tinctures for Perfumes. — 
a. Ambergris, 1 part; alcohol, 96 per 
cent, 15 parts. 



part; 



b. Benzoin, Sumatra, 1 part; alcohol, 
9G per cent, 6 parts. 

c. Musk, 1 part; distilled water, 25 
parts; spirit, 96 per cent, 25 parts. 

d. Musk, 1 part; spirit, 96 per cent, 
50 parts; for very oleiferous composi- 
tions. 

e. Peru balsam, 1 part in spirit, 96 
per cent, 7 parts; shake vigorously. 

/. Storax, 1 part in spirit, 96 per cent, 
15 parts. 

g. Powdered Tolu balsam, 1 
spirit, 96 per cent, 6 parts. 

h. Chopped Tonka beans, 1 part; 
spirit, 60 per cent, 6 parts; for composi 
tions containing little oil. 

i. Chopped Tonka beans, 1 part 
spirit, 96 per cent, 6 parts; for compos 
tions containing much oil. 

j. Vanilla, 1 part; spirit, 60 per cent, 
parts; for compositions containing li 
oil. 

It. Vanilla, 1 part; spirit, 96 per pen 
6 parts; for compositions conta- - 
much oil. , . 

I Vanillin, 20 parts; spirit, 96 p 
cent, 4,500 parts. 

m. Powdered orris root, 1 part; spl 
96 per cent, 5 parts. . « • 

n. Grated civet, 1 part in spirit, 96 p 
cent, 10 parts 

Bay Rum. — Bay rum, or more pro 
erly bay spirit, may be made from the 
with weak alcohol as here directed: 
I. — OH of bay leaves .... S drach 
Oil of orange peel ... i aracn 
Tincture of orange 

peel. . • • • • 

Magnesium carbon- 

Alcohol.': J 

Water 4 P mtS 



2 ounce 



Triturate the oils with the magnesiu 
carbonate, gradually adding the other 
ingredients previously mixed, an 
te The tincture of orange peel is used 

ke t vanes ^ quality. i ^ &nd 

w ill presumably be ton ^ ^ 

its use will not ^ V ^ ^ 

pensive. V^H Xhol and still sold 
oil and deodorized alcoboi a 

at a moderate price w J j g J to 
Esp^ial care should ^ . 
ly perfectly fresc o deteriorate. 
AS is well known, i . acquiring 

Rapidly on exposure to .the air ■ » ^ 
an F odor Biinilar to that / fl[ such 

^tfat wh opS the contents can 



onl 
As 



14 



PERFUMES 



sweet orange 
part; spirit of 



TI— Bay oil, 15 W ts > 
^ioC^atr^Oparts. soap 
i'i ouillSrUk, ad libxtum. 
ttt Ravoil 12.5 parts; sweet orange 

asasmt*- 

Coloenes.— In making cologne water, 
fhe a echo used shouldle that obtained 
^Redistillation of wine, providec a 
£ = +^l a c« irtiele is desired. It is pos> 
m of "cou Se to make a good cologne 
with Very highly rectified and deodorized 
£rn or potato 'spirits, but the product 
never equals that made from , wme 
spirits. Possibly the reason for this lies 



the fact that the latter always con- 
amount of oenantnic 



in 

tains a varying 
ether. 
I. — Oil of bcrgamot 



10 parts 

Oil of neroli 15 parts 



Oil of citron 5 parts 

Oil of cedrat 5 parts 

Oil of rosemary. . . 1 part 
Tincture of am- 
bergris 

Tincture of ben- 
zoin 

Alcohol 1,000 parts 

—The following is stated to be the 
iginal" formula: 

Oil of bergamot . 
Oil of citron .... 
Oil of cedrat. . . . 
Oil of rosemary. 

Oil of neroli' 

Oil of lavender. . 
Oil of cavella.. , , 
Absolute alcohol. 
Spirit of rose- 
mary 

Ill — Alcohol, 90 per 

T> cent ■ ■ ■ • ■ 5,000 parts 

Bergamot oil 220 parts 

-Lemon oil 7* ~ avl . d 

&eT 01I oir 5parts 

rpi F 1 rench ' 5 parts 

and Wdl ^solved in spirit 

^ntlhaking. Vxt'jddt*' f^n C " 
* acetic addW ffl2, a ^ b a °^ 
iV '^^ol, 90 per 

Lavender "oVr 5 '° 0 ° parts 
French 

Lemon oil f £ P arts 
oU parts 



parts 
parts 



96 parts 
96 parts 
96 parts 
48 parts 
48 parts 
48 parts 
24 parts 
1,000 parts 

25,000 parts 



Portugallo oil . . 
Neroli oil ..... , 
Bergamot oil . . . 
Petit grain oil . . 
Kosemary oil. . . 
Orange water. . 



30 parts 
15 parts 
15 parts 
4 parts 
4 parts 
7 °0 parts 



Cologne Spirits or Deodorized Akn 
hoi.— This is used in all toilet prepara 
tions and perfumes. It is made thus: 
Alcohol, 95 per cent . . 1 ga H 011 
Powdered unslaked 

* in f y; 4 drachm 

Powdered alum 2 drachms 

Spirit of nitrous ether 1 drachm 
Mix the lime and alum, and add them 
to the alcohol, shaking the mixture well 
together; then add the sweet spirit 0 f 
niter and set aside for 7 days, shaki 
occasionally; finally filter. 



ng 



fluidounces 
fluidouncc 



Florida Waters. — 

Oil of bergamot. . . 3 

Oil of lavender ... 1 

Oil of cloves 1} fluidrachms 

Oil of cinnamon . . %\ fluidrachms 

Oil of neroli \ fiuidrachm 

Oil of lemon 1 fluidouncc 

Essence of jasmine 6 fluidounces 

Essence of musk. . 2 fluidounces 

Hose water 1 pint 

Alcohol 8 pints 

Mis, and if cloudy, filter through mag- 
nesium carbonate. 

Lavender Water. — This, the most 
famous of all the perfumed waters, was 
originally a distillate from a mixture of 
spirit and lavender flowers. This was 
the perfume. Then came a compound 
water, or "palsy water," which was in- 
tended strictly for use as a medicitie, but 
sometimes containing ambergris and 
musk, as well as red sanders wood. 
Only the odor of the old compound re- 
mains to us as a perfume, and this is the 
odor which all perfume compounders 
endeavor to hit. The most important 
precaution in making lavender water is 
to use well-matured oil of lavender. 
Some who take pride in this P erfu ,^ e 

rit 
a 
e 

least a 



no oil which is less than 5 years 



old 



which has had 1 ounce of rectified spj 
added to each pound of oil before bejn. 
set aside to mature. After mixmg,J a 
perfume should stand for at 



month before filterincr through gray 



fil- 



tering paper. This may 
general instruction: 

— Od op lavender. . . . 
Oil of bergamot . . - 
Essence ambergris 



be taken a* a 



i % ounces 
4 drach** 



Proof spirit 3 




PERFUMES 



515 



jj. English oil of laven- 
der 

Oil of bergamot .... 

Essence of musk 

(No. 2) 3 ounce 

Essence of amber- 
gris 1 OUI1Ce 

Proof spirit 

HL English oil of laven- 
der 

Oil of bergamot .... 
Essence of amber- 



1 ounce 
drachms 



% pints 

ounce 
drachma 



gns • 

Essence of musk 

(No. 1)... 3 

Oil of angelica 
Attar of rose 



1 drachm 



6 



drachms 
minims 
minims 

Proof spirit 1 pint 

ounces 
grains 
ounces 
\ \ drachms 
\ drachm 



4 



IV. — Oil of lavender. . . 

Grain musk 15 

Oil of bergamot .... 2* 

Attar of rose 

Oil of neroli 

Spirit of nitrous 

ether 2 \ ounces 

Triple rose water. . . 12 ounces 

Proof spirit 5 pints^ 

Allow to stand 5 weeks before filtering 

LIQUID PERFUMES FOR THE HAND- 
KERCHIEF, PERSON, ETC. ; 
Acacia Extract. — 

French acacia 400 parts 

Tincture of amber 

(tin 10)... 3 

Eucalyptus oil 0.5 



1 
1 

3 

150 



parts 
parts 
part 
part 
parts 
parts 



500 parts 



60.0 grams 
180.0 grams 
90.0 grams 
2.0 grams 
7.5 grams 
11.0 grams 
4 drops 



Lavender oil 

Bergamot oil 

Tincture of musk . . . 
Tincture of orris root 
Spirit of wine, 80 per 
cent 

Bishop Essence. — 
Fresh green peel of 
unripe oranges . . 
Curacao orange peel 
Malaga orange peel 
Ceylon cinnamon. . 

Cloves 

Vanilla 

Orange flower oil. . 

Spirit of wine 1,500.0 grams 

Hungarian wine . . . 720.0 grams 
A dark-brown tincture of pleasant taste 
and smell. 

Caroline Bouquet. — 

Oil of lemon 15 minims 

Oil of bergamot 1 drachm 

Essence oE rose 4 ounces 

Essence of tuberose . . 4 ounces 

Essence of violet 4 ounces 

Tincture of orris J ounces 



Alexandra Bouquet. — 

Oil of bergamot. ..... 

Oil of rose geranium 

Oil of rose 

Oil of cassia 

Deodorized alcohol. . . 

Navy Bouquet. — 

Spirit of sandalwood. . 
Extract of patchouli. . 

Spirit of rose 

Spirit of vetivert 

Extract of verbena. . . 



3£ drachms 
\ drachm 
\ drachm 

15 minims 
1 pint 



10 ounces 
10 ounces 
10 ounces 
10 ounces 
12 ounces 

Bridal Bouquet. — Sandal oil, 30 min 
ims; rose extract, 4 fluidounces; jas 
mine extract, 4 fluidounces; orang 
flower extract, 16 fluidounces; essence < 
vanilla, 1 fluidounce; essence of musk, 
fluidounces; tincture of storax, 2 flul 
ounces. (The tincture of storax is pre 
pared with liquid storax and alcohol \ 
per cent], 1:20, by macerating for 
days.) 

Irish Bouquet. — 

White rose essence . 5,000 parts 
Vanilla essence .... 450 parts 

Rose oil 5 parts 

Spirit ■ 100 parts 

Essence Bouquet. — - 

1^— Spirit 8,000 parts 

Distilled water .... 2,000 parts 

Iris tincture 250 parts 

Vanilla herb tinc- 
ture 10° P art9 

Benzoin tincture. . . 40 parts 

Bergamot oil 50 parts 

Storax tincture 50 parts 

Clove oil 15 P arts 

Palmarosa oil 12 parts 

Lemon-grass oil. . . 15 parts 

II.— Extract of rose (2d) .. 64 ounces 
Extract of jasmine 

(2d) 13 

Extract of cassie (2d). 8 
Tincture of orris (1 

to4 \ 64 ounces 

Oil of bergamot ^ Tlh 

Oil of cloves ^fjS 

Oilofylang-ylang.... * drach 
Tincture of benzoin 

(ltoS) 

Glycerine 

Bouquet Canang. — 

Ylang-ylangoil. .. 45 

Grain musk ■* 

Rose oil 15 

Tonka beans » 

Cassie oil, . v ■ • ■ - 6 
Tincture orris rhi- 

ZO me 1 Au'doun 



ounce 
ounce 



ounces 
ounces 



minims 

grains 

minims 

minima 



6 

Civet - , minim 

finiiure"' S fluidrachms 

Mx^ and digest 1 month. The above 
nl&ET £ derived from the 

e r Mimosas . It must not be con 
ded with cassia otto, the essential 
Sained From Cinnamomum cassia. 

shmere Nosegay.— 
-Essence of violet, . 

from pomade 1 P mt 

Essence of rose, 

from pomade. . v • 1 3 P ints 
Tincture of benzoin, , 

Qto4) *P int 

Tincture of civet (1 . 

to 64) i P mt 

Tincture of Tonka (1 

to 4) t P mt 

Benzoic acid Jounce 

Oil of patchouli i ounce 

Oil of sandal i ounce 

Rose water h P in t 

Essence violet 120 ounces 

Essence rose 180 ounces 

Tincture benjamin 

(1 in 4) 60 ounces 

Tincture civet (1 in 

62) 30 ounces 

Tincture Tonka (1 in 

4) . 30 ounces 

Oil patchouli 3 ounces 

Oil sandalwood 6 ounces 

Rose water 60 ounces 

Clove Pink. — 

I« — Essence of rose 2 ounces 

Essence of orange 

„. nower 6 ounces 

Juncture of vanilla . . 3£ ounces 

Uu of cloves 20 minims 

II. — Essence of cassie. . . . 
Essence of orange 

P Sower - ; 5 ounces 

£s« nee of rose 10 ounces 

bp.n t of rose 7 ounces 

Imcture of vanilla., 3 ounces 

Ullofcloves 12 minims 

Trangipanui. — 

1. — Grain musk \q 

oandal otto. . . gg 
Rose otto. ... g5 
Orange flower 

otto (neroli) 30 
Vetivcrt otto .... 5 
Powdered orris 

rtuzome 1 

jounce 



PERFUMES 



5 ounces 



grains 

minims 

minims 

minims 
minims 



Vanilla 30 grains 

Alcohol (90 per 

cent) 10 fluidounces 

Mix and digest for 1 month. This is 
lasting and favorite perfume. 

II.— Oil of rose. 2 drachma 

Oil of neroli 2 drachma 

Oil of sandalwood . . g drachms 
Oil of geranium 

(French) ....... 2 drachms 

Tincture of vetivert 

(ai to 8) ....... .. 96 ounces 

Tincture of Tonka (1 

to 8) 16 ounces 

Tincture of orris (1 

to 4) 64 ounces 

Glycerine 6 ounces 

Alcohol 64 ounces 

Handkerchief Perfumes. — - 

I. — Lavender oil 10 parts 

Neroli oil 10 parts 

Bitter almond oil . . 2 parts 

Orris root 200 part3 

Rose oil 5 parts 

Clove oil 5 parts 

Lemon oil 1 part 

Cinnamon oil 2 parts 

Mix with 2,500 parts of best alcohol, 
and after a rest of 3 days heat moder- 
a,i.eiy on the water bath, and filter. 

II. — Bergamot oil 10 parts 

Orange peel oil 10 parts 

Cinnamon oil 2 parts 

Rose geranium oil . . 1 part 

Lemon oil 4 parts 

Lavender oil. ..... . 4 parts 

Rose oil 1 part 

Vanilla essence 5 parts 

Mix with 2,000 parts of best spirit, and 
after leaving undisturbed for 3 days, heat 
moderately on the water bath, and filter. 

Honeysuckle. — 

Oil of neroli 12 minims 

Oil of rose 10 minims 

Oil of bitter almond. . 8 minims 

Tincture of storax. ... 4 ounces 

Tincture of vanilla. . . 6 ounces 

Essence of cassie 16 ounces 

Essence of rose 16 ounces 

Essence of tuberose. . 16 ounces 

Essence of violet 16 ounces 

India. — 

Coumarin 10 grains 

Concentrated rose 

water (1 to 40) 2 ounces 

Neroli oil . . 5 minims 

Vanilla bean 1 drachm 

Ritter almond oil 5 "^'i™ 

Orris root 1 drachm 

Alcohol 10 ounces 

Macerate for a month. 



PERFUMES 



51 



Javanese Bouquet.- 
*■ .... 15 minims 

Hose on ■ • • go minims 

I J i^» t0 ;i 011 3 minims 
Gascon g mhlimg 

£, eroll ?l 2 minims 

f loVe H,;'oii"*"* ... 60 minims 
T ivender on . . 

San dalwood oil JJ minims 

*?, , i .. 10 ounces 

A coho1 11 ounces 

Water 3 

Macerate for 14 days. 

LUy Perfume.— 

Essence of jasmine ... 1 ounce 
Essence of orange 

flowers J ounce 

Essence of rose 2 ounces 

Essence of cassie 2 ounces 

Essence of tuberose . . 8 ounces 

Spirit of rose 1 ounce 

Tincture of vcmlla. . . 1 ounce 

Oil of bitter almond. . 2 minims 

Lily of the Valley — 

I Acacia essence . . . 750 parts 

Jasmine essence. . 750 parts 
Orange flower es- 
sence 800 parts 

Rose flower es- 
sence 800 parts 

Vanilla flower es- 

.sence 1,500 parts 

Bitter almond oil. 15 parts 

II. — Oil of bitter almond 10 minims 

Tincture of vanilla. . 2 ounces 

Essence of rose 2 ounces 

Essence of orange 

flower 2 ounces 

Essence of jasmine. . 24 ounces 

Essence of tuberose. 24 ounces 

Spirit of rose 2£ ounces 

III. — Extract rose ... 200 parts 

Extract vanilla. . . . 200 parts 
Extract orange. . . . 800 parts 
Extract jasmine. .. 600 parts 
Extract musk tinc- 
ture 150 parts 

Neroli oil 10 parts 

Rose oil 6 parts 

Bitter almond oil . . 4 parts 

Cassia oil.. 5 parts 

Bergamot oil 6 parts 

Tonka beans es- 
sence i50 parts 

Linaloa oil 12 parts 

Spirit of wine (90 

per cent) 3,000 parts 

iV.^Neroli extract ...... 400 parts 

Orris root extract. . 600 parts 
Vanilla extract.. .. 400 parts 

Rose extract 900 parts 

Musk extract 200 parts 



Orange extract 500 parts 

Clove oil . 6 £ artg 

Bergamot oil 5 £ arts 

Kose geranium oil 15 parts 

Mar&hal Niel Rose.— I n the genus of 
roses, outside of the hundred-leaved or 
cabbage rose, the Marechal Niel rose 
(Rosa Noisetteana Red), also called 
Noisette rose and often, erroneously, tea 
rose, is especially conspicuous. Its fine, 
piquant odor delights all lovers of pre- 
cious perfumes. In order to reproduce 
the fine scent of this flower artificially at 
periods when it cannot be had without 
much expenditure, the following recipes 
will be found useful ; 

I. — Infusion rose I 



(from pomades) 1,000 


parts 


Genuine rose oil . . 


10 


parts 


Infusion Tolu bal- 






150 


parts 


Infusion genuine 






40 


parts 




30 


parts 




2 


parts 


Infusion tube- 






reuse I (from 








1,000 


parts 




1 


part 




0.5 parts 



II. — Triple rose essence. . 
Simple rose essence. 

Neroli essence 

Civet essence 

Iris essence 

Tonka beans essence 

Rose oil 

Jasmine essence. . . • 

Violet essence 

Cassia essence 

Vanilla essence 

Clove oil . . 

Bergamot oil 

Rose geranium oil . . 



50 grams 
60 grams 
30 grams 
20 grams 
30 grams 
20 grams 
5 drops 
60 grams 
50 grams 
50 grams 
45 grams 
20 drops 
10 drops 
20 drops 



May Flowers. — ■ 

Essence of rose. . . . ■ 
Essence of jasmine.. 
Essence of orange 

flowers : • ■ ■ ■ l Ji 

Essence of cassie.. . ■ 
Tincture of vanilla. . 20 
Oil of bitter almond. 



10 
10 



ounces 
ounces 

ounces 
ounces 
ounces 
J drachm 



Narcissus. — 

Caryophyllin... 
Extract of tuberose- 
Extract of jasmine . . 
Oil of neroli.- ■• ■-*■ 
Oil of ylang-ylang - . 

OH 0 f clove 

Glycerine 



10 minims 
16 ounces 

4 ounces 
gO minims 
g0 minims 

5 minims 
SO minim* 



518 



PERFUMES 



Almond Blossom- — 

Extract of heliotrope 30 parts 

Oil of lemon ■ 

Spirit of bitter al- 
mond, 10 per cent 
Deodorized alcohol. 



1 part 

6 parts 
40 parts 



Artificial Violet.— Ionone 



is an arti- 
ficial" perfume which smells exactly like 
S Volets, and is ^erefore an ex- 
tremely important product. Although 
before it was discovered, compositions 
were Lown which gave fair imitations of 
the violet perfume, they were wanting m 
the characteristic tang which distin- 
guishes all violet preparations. Ionone 
the curious property possessed 



has even we vui««"a r"t""".' t -_---. 
by violets of losing its scent occasionally 
for a short time. It occasionally hap- 
pens that an observer, on taking the 
stopper out of a bottle of ionone, per- 
ceives no special odor, but a few seconds 
after the stopper has been put back in 
the bottle, the whole room begins to 
smell of fresh violets. It seems to be a 
question of dilution. It is impossible, 
however, to make a usable extract by 
mere dilution of a 10 per cent solution of 
ionone. 

t It is advisable to make these prepara- 
tions in somewhat large quantities, say 
30 to 50 pounds at a time. This en- 
ables them to be stocked for some time 
whereby they improve greatly. When 
all the ingredients are mixed, 10 days or 
a fortnight, with frequent shakings, 
should elapse before filtration. The 
faltered product must be kept in well- 
hlled and well-corked bottles in a dry 
cellar C °°i£ M a ^ll-ventilated 

Quadruple Extract.— i. 

Jasmine extract, 1st 7 ^ 

pomade.,.. mo 

Rose extract] 1st partS 

pomade. inn 

Cassia extract,' "1st ^ partfl 

pomade. . 
Violet extract,* Vst 
Pomade . . . 

0l ' of. geranium, 
Spanish . . 

1[> per cent.. 
Solution of 'io. 
n °^> 10 percent 



200 parts 
200 parts 
2 parts 
10 parts 
100 parts 
20 parts 



Parts 

26 0 parts 
By weight 



Infusion of musk . . lo 
Infusion of nrri3 

from coarsely 

ground root 

Triple Extract. — 

Cassia extract, 2d 

Ppmade loo part3 

Violet extract, 2d 

pomade 300 parts 

Jasmine extract, 

2d pomade 100 parts 

Rose extract, 2d 

pomade.. .. .. .. 100 parts 

Oil or geranium, 

African 

Ionone, 10 per cent 
Solution of vanil- 
lin, 10 per cent. . 
Infusion of orris 

f r o'ni coarse 

ground root .... 
Infusion of musk . . 



1 part 
15 parts 

5 parts 



270 parts 
10 parts 



By 



weight 



100 parts 

2 parts 
10 parts 

10 parts 

20 parts 



Double Extract.— 

Cassia extract, 2d 

pomade 100 parts 

Violet extract, 2d 

pomade 150 parts 

Jasmine extract, 

2d pomade 100 parts 

Rose extract, 2d 

romade 
of geranium, 

reunion 

Ionone, 10 per cent 
Solution of vanil- 
lin, 10 per cent. . 
Infusion of am- 

brette 

Infusion of orris 
from coarse 

ground root 300 parts 

Spirit 210 parts 

White Rose. — 

Rose oil 25 minims 

Rose geranium oil . . 20 minims 

Patchouli oil 5 minims 

Ionone 3 minims 

Jasmine oil (syn- 
thetic) 5 minims 

Alcohol 10 ounces 

Ylang-Ylang Perfume. — 

I.— Ylang-ylang oil 10 minims 

Nerofioil.. 5 minims 

Rose oil 5 minims 

Bergamotoil 3 minims 

Alcohol 10 ounces 

One grain of musk may be added. 

II.— Extract of cassie (2d) 96 ounces 
Extract of jasmine 
(2d) 



24 o 



unces 



Extract of rose S4 ounces 

Tincture of orris .... 4 ounces 

Oil Of ylang-ylang . . 6 drachms 

Glycerme 6 ounces 

TOILET WATERS. 

Toilet waters proper are perfumed 
linuids designed more especially as re- 
Kdr% applications to the person— 
ISS the bath and to the opera- 
?■ f<f of the barber. They are used 
SarinSy on the handkerchief also but 
Ku d not be of so persistent a char- 
ter as the "extracts" common v used 
for that purpose, as they would then be 
unsuitable as lotions. 

Ammonia Water.— Fill a 6-ounce 
erouncl glass stoppered bottle with a 
rather wide moutli with pieces of am- 
monium carbonate as large as a marble, 
then drop in the following essential oils. 

Oil of lavender 30 drops 

Oil of bergamot .... 30 drops 

Oil of rose 10 drops 

Oil of cinnamon. ... 10 drops 

Oil of clove 10 drops 

Finally fill the bottle with stronger 
water of ammonia, put in the stopper and 
let stand overnight. 

Birch -Bud Water. — Alcohol (96 per 
cent), 350 parts; water, 70 parts; soft 
soap, 20 parts; glycerine, 15 parts; essen- 
tial oil of birch buds, 5 parts; essence of 
spring flowers, 10 parts; chlorophyll, 
quantity sufficient to tint. Mix the 
water with an equal volume of _ spirit 
and dissolve the soap in the mixture. 
Mix the oil. and other ingredients with 
the remainder of the spirit, add the soap 
solution gradually, agitate well, allow to 
stand for 8 days and filter. For use, 
dilute with an equal volume of water. 

Carmelite Balm Water. — 

Melissa oil 30 minims 

Sweet marjoram 

oil 3 minims 

Cinnamon oil ... . 10 minims 

Angelica oil 3 minims 

Citron oil 30 minims 

Clove oil 15 minims 

Coriander oil ... . 5 minims 

Nutmee oil 5 minims 

Alcohol (90 per 

cent) 10 fluidounces 

Angelica oil is obtained principally 
from the aromatic root of Angelica 
archangelica, L. (N. O. tJmbelliferie), 
which is commonly cultivated for the 
sake of the volatile oil which it yields. 



Cypress Water. — 

Essence of ambergris \ ounce 

Spirits of wine 1 gallon 

Water 2 quarts 

Distill a gallon. 

Eau de Botot. — 

Aniseed 80 parts 

Clover go parts 

Cinnamon cassia . . SO parts 

Cochineal.. 5 parts 

Refined spirit 800 parts 

Rose water 200 parts 

Digest for 8 days and add 
Tincture of amber- 
gris 1 part 

Peppermint oil. . , . 10 parts 

Eati de Lais. — 

Eau de cologne 1 part 

Jasmine extract .... 0.5 parts 

Lemon essence 0.5 parls 

Balm water 0.5 parts 

Vetiver essence 0.5 parts 

Triple rose water. . . 0.5 parts 

Eau de Merveilleuse. — 

Alcohol 3 quarts 

Orange flower water 4 quarts 

Peru balsam 8 ounces 

Clove oil. 4 ounces 

Civet 14 ounces 

Rose geranium oil . . \ ounce 

Rose oil 4 drachma 

Nerolioil 4 drachms 

Edelweiss. — ■ 

Bergamot oil 10 grams 

Tincture of am- 
bergris 2 g rams 

Tincture of veti- 
ver (1 in 10) ... . 2» grams 
Heliotropin.... o grams 

Rose oil spirit (1 

in 100) a ?5 ra "f 

Tincture of musk. 5 drops 

Tincture of angel- 

ica .•• 

Neroli oil, artifi- g 

cial... ■• 

Hyacinth, artifi- ^ ^ 

Jasmine; artificial 1 gram 
c;nirit of Wine, o n 
^percent 1.000 grams 

Honey Water.- 

Best honey £ d 

Coriander seed } lounces 

Cloves J ounce 

Nutmegs...-. j oun ce 

Gum benjamin .... J ^ 

^^^^^ 



PERFUMES 



der 
es in 
embic 




the d&tUIed spirit add 

Damask rose water. 
Orange flower water i 

MuSk...; I ^3 

Ambergris ^ B , . 

Grind the musk and ambergris in a 
gla£ mortar, and afterwards put all to- 
gether into a digesting vessel, and let 
fhem 'circulate /days and S Jjg m a 
gentle heat; then let all cool *Hter, ana 
Kep the water in bottles well stoppered. 

H —Oil of cloves 2* drachms 

Oil of bergamot 10 drachms 

English oil of laven- 
der 2$ drachms 

Musk 4 grains 

Yellow sandalwood. 2£ drachms 

Rectified spirit 32 ounces 

Rose water 8 ounces 

Orange flower water 8 ounces 
English honey 2 ounces 

Lacerate the musk and sandalwood 
the spirit 7 days, filter, dissolve the oils 
the nitrate, add the other ingredients, 
shake well, and do so occasionally, keep- 
ing as long as possible before filtering. 

Lilac Water. — 

Terpineol 2 drach ms 

Heliotropin 8 grains 

Bergamot oil 1 drachm 

Nerohoil 8 minims 

£l coho1 12 ounces 

4 ounces 



Water 

ange Flower Water. 

Orange flower 
sence ....... 

Magnesium carb 
ate. 

Water \\ 

'riturate the essence 
mm carbonate, add the 



on- 



8 ounces 



ter 



1 ounce 
8 pints 
with the mag- 
water, and 

W^er.^J^^, Flower 
»* sand which hL q n rt -° f l \ With * Pound 
°ut with hydr^hlS^ 10 ^ been ho{1 ^ 

doubtless would Drnv :! e r , , us Process 
oth *r purpose P VC valua ble for many 

Violet Waters.-, 

l ~~ Spirit of i ononej 1Q 

^.Percent. . ' " 

JJistUled water J drachm 



Rose water ^ 

Cologne spirit. ..... g 




ounce 



Add the spirit of ionone to the «i , 
d then add the waters. Let stand° 



and 



an 

filter. 

II. — Violet extract .... a 

Cassie extract 0u Oces 

Spirit of rose ' , ° Ullc e 

Tincture of orris . . . ' I £ Unce 
Green coloring, a sufficiency 1106 
Alcohol to 20 ounces. 

PERFUMED PASTILLES. 

These scent tablets consist of a 



com- 



pressed mixture of rice starch 
nesium carbonate, and powdered 
root, saturated with heliotrope v ioU S 
or lilac perfume. ' '> 

Violet. — 

Ionone 50 parts 

Ylang-ylang oil 50 parts 

Tincture of musk, 

extra strong S0O parts 

Tincture of benzoin . 200 parts 

Heliotrope. — 

Heliotropin 200 parts 

Vanillin 50 parts 

Tincture of musk. . . 100 parts 
Tincture of benzoin. 200 parts 

Lilac. — 

Terpineol 200 parts 

Muguet. 200 parts 

Tincture of musk. , .200 parts 
Tincture of benzoin .200 parts 

Sandalwood 2 dranhms 

Vetivert 2 drachms 

Lavender flowers. . . 4 drachms 

Oil of thyme . \ drachm 

Charcoal 2* ounces 

Potassium nitrate. . . jounce 
Mucilage of tragacanth, a sufficient 
quantity. 
Perfumes for Hair Oils. — 

I. — Heliotropin 8 grains 

Coumarin 1 grain 

Oil of orris. 1 d r0 P 

Oil of rose 15 minims 

Oil of bergamot 30 minims 

II.— Coumarin 2 grains 

Oil of cloves 4 drops 

Oil of cassia 4 drops 

Oil of lavender flow- , . B 
ers ... 15 minims 

Oil of lemon 45 minims 

Oil of bergamot .... 75 minims 

Soap Perfumes. — 
See also Soap. 

I. — Oil of lavender i 0 ^-L 

Oil of cassia SO nufl" 08 

Add 5 pounds of soap stocie. 



PETROLEUM 



5&1 



li drachms 
of 
each 



Tf Oil of caraway 

Oil of clove.. 

Oil of white thyme 
Oil of cassia. f 
Oil of orange leat 
(neroii petit grain) 

Oil of lavender 

Add to 5 pounds of soap stock. 
PEROXIDE OF HYDROGEN, TO 

™ K ounces sodium perborate, 25 
■ = indium bicarbonate are sufficient 
r"le a Son. Dissolve in gallon clear 
er and bottle in colored bottle, with 
SSght cork. This can be used to 
bleach ivory and bone, 

Petroleum 

(See also Oils.) 
The Preparation of Emulsions of 
Pride Petroleum.— Kerosene has long 
been recognized as a most efficient insec- 
ticide, but its irritating action, as well as 
tie very considerable cost involved, has 
prevented the use of the pure oil as a 
focal application in the various parasitic 
skin diseases of animals 

In order to overcome these objections 
various expedients have been resorted to, 
all of which have for their object the dilu- 
tion or ern unification of the kerosene. 
Probably the best known and most gen- 
erally employed method for accomplish- 
ing this result is that which is based upon 
the use of soap as an emulsifying agent. 
The formula which is used almost uni- 
versally for making the kerosene soap 
emulsion is as follows: 

Kerosene 2 gallons 

Water 1 gallon 

Hard soap 4 pound 

The soap is dissolved in the water with 
the aid of heat, and while this solution is 
still hot the kerosene is added and the 
whole agitated vigorously. The smooth 
white mixture which is obtained in this way 
is diluted before use with sufficient water 
to make a total volume of 20 gallons, and 
is usually applied to the skin of animals 
or to trees or other plants by means of a 
spray pump. This method of applica- 
tion is used because the diluted emulsion 
separates quite rapidly, and some me- 
chanical device, such as a self-mixing 
spray pump, is required to keep the oil 
in suspension. 

It will be readily understood that 
this emulsion would not be well adapted 
either for use as a dip or for application 
by hand, for in the one case the oiU 
which rapidly rises to the surface, would 
adhere to the animals when they emerged 



from the dipping tank and the irritating 

effect would be scarcely less than that 
produced by the plain oil, and in the 
second case the same separation of the 
kerosene would take place and necessa- 
rily result in an uneven distribution of the 
oil on the bodies of the animals which 
were being treated. 

Within recent years it has been found 
that a certain crude petroleum frcm the 
Beaumont oil fields is quite effective for 
destroying the Texas fever cattle ticks. 
This crude petroleum contains from 40 
to 50 per cent of oils boiling below 
300° C. (572° F.), and from 1 to 1.5 per 
cent of sulphur. After a number o* 
trials of different combinations of crude 
oil, soap, and water, the following for 
mula was decided upon as the one bes 
suited to the uses in view; 



Crude petroleum 2 gallons 

Water h gallon 

Hard soap k pound 

Dissolve the soap in the water wi 
the aid of heat; to this solution add th 
crude petroleum, mix with a spray pum 
or shake vigorously, and dilute with th 
desired amount of water. Soft wat 
should, of course, be used. Various 
forms of hard and soft soaps have been 
tried, but soap with an amount of free 
alkali equivalent to 0.9 per cent of sodium 
hvdroxide gives the best emulsion. All 
the ordinary laundry soaps are quite sat- 
isfactory, but toilet soaps m the ma 
are not suitable. 

An emulsion of crude petroleum ma 
according to this modified formula 
maTns fluid and can be easily poured; it 
wih stand indefinitely without any ten 
dencv toward a separation of the oil ana 
I7t7r and can be Siluted in anv .pre .por- 
tion with cold soft water After su 
cient dilution to produce a 10 P£ ce 
emulsion, a number o f h ours are 

f £ut a S: T^ te d 
s2sX ^. sepa t r hfs 

After long ? tandin ^ c ° l yer P which is 
the form, of a creamhke Uye 

easily ml ^ is W tL tefo?e evident that for 

stirring- It 18 "e rei . w hich will hold 

producing an e ^ ls ^ ft \ r dilution, the 

the oil in/ us P^ E1 ° n eets the desired re- 
codified formula meets xu 

quirements. # eEQU Uion for use in 

In preparing tins em 
- \ a large spr 
mixing 25 E* [lons 



In preparing tins emu"*»_ capa ble of 
formula h ?n rewi.h f v«n. 



in "".if. -v i n mind tnai n " 



5££ 



PETROLEUM— PICTURES 



t ^Ktflinpd from the Beaumont 
^fdTthf SmpcSSon of which has 
iLSdrbeen given . As crude petroleums 
r ^ tfffeSnt sources vary greatly in their 
XiwS it is impracticable to give a 
formula that can be used with all crude 
tils Nevertheless, crude Pefoleum 
from other sources than the Beaumont 
welS may be emulsified by modifying 
tie formia given above. In order to 
letermine what modification of this 
formula is necessary f« fhe emularfca- 
tion of a given oil, the following method 
may be used: . 1T . 

Dissolve £ pound of soap in £ gallon of 
hot water; to 1 measure of this soap 
solution add 4 measures of the crude 
petroleum to be tested and shake well 
m a stoppered bottle or flask for several 
minutes. 

If, after dilution, there is a separation 
of a layer of pure oil within half an hour 
the emulsion is imperfect, and a modifi- 
cation of the formula will be required. 
To accomplish this the proportion of oil 
should be varied until a good result is 
obtained. 

Petroleum for Spinning. — In order to 
be able to wash out the petroleum or 
render it "saponifiable," the following 
process is recommended: Heat the min- 
eral oil with 5 to 10 per cent of olein, 



erai on witn 5 to 10 per cent of olein, 
add the proper amount of alcoholic lye 
and continue heating until the solvent 
(water alcohol) evaporates. A prac- 
at2sK 1S t0 iat ™ duce . an aqueous lye 
untf \ f 1 ?iT aU P ° rtlons aud t0 belt 
TSnt h ° th dlsa PP^r S . For clearness 
wa Lr ll^l merdy t0 eva P<>™te all the 
mav hp :L / 3 T e manner . more olein 
deSlre l if the admixture 
Toil £ fV? d T n so , that not too much 

0^^. "Aft SSS"? b ■ 

the cooli n gfby ?™S "after 

sieves. Soan L I ? * ^rough fine 
distributed in he netr T and int ^tely 
est particles °f oil f etl : ol « uni that the fin- 
it were When T IS ° kt ? d ^ *>*P, as 

emulsion result c 1? tne water an 

Parts caunoT Vstin *H diffe ^ 
same process i stm .Suished. The 

H*P ' oatSS5 k £ fc e cashing, the 
tw«en the fibers .u' 1 SWe 'Iin| be- 

T n ^ xtl "e with l t the .° U , Prides 
f biting it fro^^C 1 ^ 5 ^ * e 
deodorized pa tr „i 

5St ^n de0do ^d°t U ^ T. Pe ^oleum 
* lt a 100 parts -f^^y shaking it first 
eve ry 4 5 nn _ ° f chl orinatert 1: " T st 



for 
ro- 



chloric acid, then transferring th* 
to a vessel containing lim e an 1 ^^id 
shaking until all the chlorine' is r a £*in 
After standing, the petroleum ■ Ve i 
canted. u 18 de- 

Petroleum Briquettes. — Mix wit! 
parts of petroleum oil 150 1 ^ .000 
ground soap, 150 parts of rosin ai °^ 
parts of caustic soda lye. Jjf i 
mixture while stirring. When si -Jk^ 
cation commences, which will h * 
about 40 minutes, the operation unZ t 
watched, it the mixture tends to 
flow, pour into the receiver a few d^" 
of soda, and continue to stir until?? 3 
solidification is complete. When tV 
operation is ended, flow the matter int 
molds for making the briquettes a 
place them for 10 or 15 minutes' K 
stove; then they may be allowed to cod 
The briquettes can be employed a & 
hours after they are made. 



m 



To the th ree elements constitufintT tv. 
ixture it is useful to add per 1,000 narto 
by_ weight of the briquettes to be ob 
tamed, 120 parts of sawdust and igo 
parts of clay or sand, to render the 
briquettes more solid. 

Experiments in the heating of these 
briquettes have demonstrated that they 
will furnish three times as much heat as 
briquettes of ordinary charcoal, without 
leaving any residue. 

PETROLEUM EMULSION: 

See Insecticides. 

PETROLEUM JELLIES : 
See Lubricants. 

PETROLEUM SOAP: 
See Soap. 

PEWTER: 

See Alloys. 

PEWTER, TO CLEAN: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

PEWTER, AGEING : 

If it is desired to impart to modern ar- 
ticles of pewter the appearance of an- 
tique objects, plunge the pieces for several 
moments into a solution of alum to whico 
several drops of hydrochloric or sulphuric 
acid have been added. 

PICTURES, GLOW. 

, These can be easily produced by draw- 
ing the outlines of a picture, writing, etc., 
°» a Piece of white paper with a solution 
Of 40 parts of saltpeter and 20 parts or 
gum arable in 40 parts of warm water, 
using a writing pen for tins purpose. A« 
tiie lines must connect and one of «* eui 



PHOSPHATE SUBSTITUTE— PHOTOGRAPHY 



528 



+1«> edee of the paper, where 
^fS m3ed withVfine lead- 
lt S 9 \ line When a burning match is 
pcnol line. g immediat el y 

£ e]d to this i sp the whol de- 

^and E desifn formerly invisible 
Sv appears entirely singed. This 
gSi trielffs not dangerous. 
PHOSPHATE SUBSTITUTE. 

Aa artificial phosphate is thus pre- 
V Melt in an oven a mixture of 100 
par f f oho Phorile, ground coarsely, 70 
paF £ o fcid sulphate of soda; 20 parts of 
P ar , J of lime- n parts of sand, and 
?07 oal <>* h'xeoal Run the molten 
Sterhito a receiver filled With water; 
^cooling it will become granular. Rake 
oSt the granular mass from the water, 
A Xr drvinff, grind to a fine powder. 
¥he fhosphStecfn be kept for a long 
toe without losing iis quality, for it 18 
neither caustic nor hygroscopic. Wag- 
ner ha., in collaboration with Dorsch, 
conducted fertilizing experiments for 
determining its value, as compared with 
superphosphate or with Thomas slag. 
The phosphate decomposes more rapidly 
in the soil than Thomas slag, and so far 
as the experiments have gone, it appears 
that the phosphoric acid of the new phos- 
phate exercises almost as rapid an action 
as the phosphoric acid of the superphos- 
phate soluble in water. 



Photography 

NEW DISCOVERIES IN 
PHOTOGRAPHY 

Prepared by 
ADRIAN and J E ANNETTE LEROY 
of the International Research 
Laboratories 
1612 Neptune Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Including Defects in Photographic 
Work — Developers — Miniature Cam- 
era — Enlargements — Exposures — 
Retouching — Buyers of Photos — Pho- 
tography in Natural Colors — Toning 
Pictures for Double Color — Dictionary 
of Photographic Chemicals and Their 
"Uses — Intensification and Reduction — 
Photographic Fixation — Printing Pho- 
tos on Fabrics — Reversal Development 
and many other new Methods and 
Processes. See page 806. 

DEVELOPERS AND DEVELOP- 
ING OF PLATES. 

No light is perfectly safe or non- 
actinic, even that coming through a com- 
bined ruby and orange window or lamp. 
Therefore use great care in developing. 



A light may be tested this way: Place a 
dry plate in the plate holder in total 
darkness, draw the slide sufficiently to 
expose one-half of the plate, and allow 
the light from the window or lamp, 12 to 
18 inches distant, to fall on this exposed 
half for 3 or 4 minutes. Then develop 
the plate the usual length of time in total 
darkness. If the light is safe, there will 
be no darkening of the exposed part. If 
not safe, the remedy is obvious. 

The developing room must be a per- 
fectly dark room, save for the light from 
a ruby- or orange-colored window (or 
combination of these two colors). Have 
plenty of pure running water and good 
ventilation. 

Plates should always be kept in a drj 
room. The dark room is seldom a safe 
place for storage, because it is apt to be 
damp. _ . 

Various developing agents give differ 
ent results. Pyrogallie acid in combi 
nation with carbonate of sodium oi 
carbonate of potassium gives strong 
vigorous negatives. Eikonogen and mete 
vield soft, delicate negatives. Hydro 
"chinon added to eikonogen or meto 
produces more contrast or greatei 

^Unessential to have a bottle of brc 
mide of potassium solution, 10 per cent, 
in the dark room. (One ounce of bromide 
of potassium, water to 10 ounces.) Over- 
timed plates may be much improved 
bidding a few drops of ^ ld \ so }Z 
tion to tie developer as soon as the 
overtimed condition is apparent (a plate 
U overtimed when the image appears 
alrn^ Immediately, and then blackens 

^S^med plates f^J.^y 
out of the developer .and placed n ^tray 



If the detai m tne s = . 

velopment brought to ' ^ n ^ r so l u . 

Quick dejdopmen , with^ g ^ 
tions, means a lacs ux & 
tones. warm or containing, 

A de ^Xati ?carbonTte of sodium or 
grtSSmfSffl (C yield flat, foggy nega- 
ti T developer toe . cold i-^ed in ^ 

uniform ^ suits- cont i nue d too loi 

Ir development 18 i. 
the negative inU be too ^ 
5 bould W be rm diluTe a d! in cold weather, 
SSSld be stronger. 



584 

The negative should not be exposed to 

- - T L hnSer in the fixing bath than is 
TecesZl ^dissolve out tL white bro- 

t hot wether a chrome alum fixing 
>ath should be used to prevent frying. 
Always use a fresh hypo or fixing bath, 

H pK^d plate holders must be kept 
free from dust, or pinholes will result. 

After the negative is fixed, an hours 
washing is none too much. . 

The plate should be dried quickly in 
warm weather else the film will become 
dense and coarsegrained. 

Do not expect clean, faultless negatives 
to come out of dirty developing and fax- 
ing solutions and trays. 

Pyxo and Soda Developer. — • 

I. — Pure water 30 ounces 

Sulphite soda, crys- 
tals 5 ounces 

Carbonate soda, 
crystals 2£ ounces 

Pure water 24 ounces 

Oxalic acid 15 grains 

Pyrogallic acid 1 ounce 

To develop, take of 

Solution No. I 1 Jounce 

Solution No. II ; ounce 

Pure water 3 ounces 

More water may be used in warm 
weather and less in cool weather. 

If solution No. I is made by hydrom- 
eter test, use equal parts of the follow- 
ing: 

Sulphite soda testing, 80°. 
Carbonate soda testing, 40°. 
One ounce of this mixture will be . 
alent to 1 ounce of solution No. I. 



Sulphite soda, cry's 
tals 

Carbonate 
sium. dr\ 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



:quiv- 



potas- 



II 



• — Pure water. 
Oxalic acid. 



32 


ounces 


8 


ounces 


1 


ounce 


24 


ounces 


15 


ounces 


1 


ounce 


1 


ounce 



T ° develop, take of 
Solution No. I 
Solution No. ii"" 
Pure water * ounce 

Syr**-, ■'.oo' 



Pyro and Metol Developer.- 

short exposures: 

I, — Pure water 57 

Sulphite soda, crys- 
tals 



ounces 

ta;s 91 

Metol 1*22°* 

ounce 

Pure water 57 

Sulphite soda, crys- 
tals 2 

Pyrogallic acid I ounce 

ounces 

®1 ounces 



III. 



nee 
oun Ce3 

%h ouncea 



Pure water 57 

Carbonate potas- 
sium , 

To develop, take of 

Pure water 3 ounces 

Solution No. I ] ounce 

Solution No. II.. .. . 1 ounce 
Solution No. III. ... 1 ounce 
This developer may be used repeat- 
edly by adding a little fresh developer as 
required. 

iCeep the used developer in a separate 
bottle. 

Rodinal Developer. — One part rodinal 
to 30 parts pure water. 

Use repeatedly, adding fresh as re- 
quired. 

Bromo -Hydro chinon Developer.— For 
producing great contrast and intensity, 
also for developing over-exposed plates. 

I. — Distilled or ice water 25 ounces 

Sulphite of soda, crys- 
tals , 3 ounces 

Hydrochinon ounce 

Bromide of potas- 
sium J ounce 

Dissolve by warming, and let cool be- 
fore use. 

II. — Water 25 ounces 

Carbonate of soda, 

crystals 6 ounces 

Mix Nos. I and II, equal parts, for use. 

Eikonogen Hydrochinon Developer.— 

I- — Distilled or pure 

well water 32 ounces 

Sodium sulphite, 

crystals 4 ounces 

Eikonogen 240 grains 

Hydrochinon 60 grains 

II. — Water 32 ounces 

Carbonate of potash 4 ounces 
To develop, take 

No. I 2 ounces 

No. II * \ ] * ' ' " 1 ounce 

♦Water. 1 ounce 



plates use 5 ounc* 8 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



526 



gy hydrometer: 

t S odium sulphite. 

solution to test 30 34 ounces 

Eikonogen.. . 240 grains 

Hydrochinon 60 grains 

II Carbonate of pot- 
ash solution to 

test 50 

To develop, take 

i 2 ounces 

No'll.'. 1 ounce 

* Water 1 ounce 

Hydrochinon Developer. — 

1. Hydrochinon 1 ounce 

Sulphite of soda, 

crystals 5 ounces 

Bromide of potas- 
sium • 10 grains 

Water (ice or dis- 
tilled) 55 ounces 

II —Caustic potash 180 grains 

Water 10 ounces 

To develop: 

Take of I, 4 ounces; II, £ ounce. Af- 
ter use pour into a separate bottle. This 
can be used repeatedly, and with uni- 
formity of results, by the addition of 1 
drachm of I and 10 drops of II to every 
8 ounces of old developer. , 

In using this developer it is important 
to notice the temperature of the room, 
as a slight variation in this respect causes 
a very marked difference in the time it 
takes to develop, much more so than with 
pyro. The temperature of room should 
be from 70° to 75° F. 

Metol Developer. — 

I. — Water 8 ounces 

Metol 100 grains 

Sulphite of soda, 

crystals 1 ounce 

II. — Water 10 ounces 

Potassium carbonate 1 ounce 
Take equal parts of I and II and 6 
parts of water. If more contrast is 
needed, take equal parts of I and II and 
S parts of water, with 5 drops to the 
ounce of a tV solution of bromide of 
potassium. 

Metol and Hydrochinon Developer. — 

I- — Pure hot water 80 ounces 

Metol 1 ounce 

Hydrochinon ^ ounce 

Sulphite soda, crys- 
tals '. 6 ounces 

* For double-eoated plates use 5 ounces of 
"Water. 



80 ounces 



ounces 

ounces 

ounce 

ounce 



II- — Pure water 

Carbonate soda, 

crystals 5 

To develop, take of 

Pure water g 

Solution No. 1 1 

Solution No. II 1 

Metol-Bicarbonate Developer. — Thor- 
oughly dissolve 

Metol 1 ounce 

In water. 60 ounces 

Then add 

Sulphite of soda, 

crystals 6 ounces 

Bicarbonate of soda. 3 ounces 
To prepare with hydrometer, mix 
Sulphite of soda so- 
lution, testing 75. . 30 ounces 
Bicarbonate of soda 

solution, testing 50 30 ounces 

Metol 1 ounce 

Dissolved in 12 ounces water. 

Ferrous-Oxalate Developer. — Fo 
transparencies and opals. 

I. — Oxalate of potash. . . 8 ounces 

Water 30 ounces 

Citric acid 60 grains 

Citrate of ammonia 

solution 2 ounces 

XI. — Sulphate of iron 4 ounces 

Water 32 ounces 

Sulphuric acid 16 drops 

HI. — Citrate of ammonia 
solution saturated. 
Dissolve 1 ounce citric acid in 5 ounce 
distilled water, add liquor ammonia un 
til a slip of litmus paper just loses th 
red color, then add water to make th 
whole measure 8 ounces. 

Add 1 ounce of II to 2 of I, and i ounc^ 

of water, and 3 to 6 drops of 10 per cent 
solution bromide potassium. . 

To develop, first rinse developing dish 
with water, lay film or plate down, and 
flow with sufficient developer to well 
coTer Careful attention must be given 
f ;t« nation and when detail is just 
U ngln the face, or half-tone lights in 
I view - pour off developer, and well wash 
the fihn P before placing in the fixing bath. 

Tolidol Developer -Standard formal 
for dry plates and films: 

Water 16 oun . ceS 

Tolidol 24 grains 

Ophite".- A**) 

™* -fimires in parenthesis are for cry 
tall It 8 38 be ?een that in every ca 



5*6 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



u* ~t «mlt>hite required in crys- 
the weight « S «JP" f H dr y su lphite, 
lis is doubl = that o y c , g l3 
while the weight ol_ car ^ ^ 
times ^ much ^ dry t hn ^. 

For tank develop tandar(i formula 

50to 95 grains 
SO pS. m . £Ui : 80 060) grains 

SO b d onr. Car : UO (300) grains 
On some brands of plates the addition 
| a little retarder will be necessary. 
If stock solutions are preferred, they 
may be made as follows: 
Solution A 

Water 

Tolidol .. 

Sodium sulphite. . 

Solution B 

Water 

Sodium sulphite. 

Solution C 

Water 32 ounces 

Sodium carbonate 4 (10) ounces 
If preferred, stock solutions B and C 
can be made by hydrometer, instead of 
by weight as above. The solutions will 
then show: 

Solution B 

Sodium sulphite. ... 40 

Solution C 

Sodium carbonate . . 75 

Or if potassium carbonate is preferred 
instead of sodium: 

Solution G 
Potassium carbonate 60 
For standard formula for 
and films, mix 

Solution A 

Solution B. .... 
Solution G 
Water. . 



32 ounces 
1 ounce 

1 (g) ounce 

32 ounces 

2 (4) ounces 



dry plates 



part 
part 
part 
parts 

tino): ng ne « at ™ (^r aristo-pla- 



l°! u ;i on ^ lJto2 

Solution B . i 

Solution C i 

pj^' '"^ loll 
*or tank development: 

goution^... 

golutiotifi. " "* i 

Solution 0.. ; 

Water „ a 
35 



parts 
part 
part 
parts 

part 
part 
part 
parts 



For developing paper: 

Solution 2paptg 

Solution if 2 p artg 

Solution C l part 

The reading of the hydrometer { 
stock solutions is the same Wheth 
dried chemicals or crystals are Use ? 
No water is used. u - 

Pyrocatechm-Phosphate Develop er- __ 

Solution A 
Crystallized sulphite 

of soda. 386 grains 

Pyrocatechin 77 grains 

Water 8 ounces 

Solution B 

Ordinary crystal 
phosphate of so- 
dium 725 grains 

Caustic soda (puri- 
fied in sLiuks) 77 grains 

Water 8 ounces 

Mix 1 part of A with 1 part of B and 
from 1 to 3 parts of water. If the ex- 
posure is not absolutely normal we 
recommend to add to the above develop- 
er a few drops of a solution of bromide 
of potassium (1.10). 

Pyrocatechin Developer (One Solu- 
tion). — Dissolve in the following range: 

Sulphite of soda crys- 
tallized 9,ol drachms 

Caustic soda (puri- 
fied in sticks) .... Si drachms 

Distilled water 14 ounces 

Pyrocatechin 308 grains 

The pyrocatechin must not be added 
until the' sulphitc and caustic soda are 
entirely dissolved. For use the con- 
contra ted developer is to be diluted with 
from 10 to 20 times as much water. The 
normal proportion is 1 part of developer 
in 15 parts of water. 

VogePs Pyrocatechin Combined De- 
veloper and Fixing Solution. — 

Sulphite of soda 

crystallized 4CS grains 

Water.. 2f ounces 

Caustic potash 

(purified in 

Sticks) 10S grains 

Pyrocatechin 108 g" inS 

Mix for a formally fixing p) ilte ° 
5x7 inches. 

Developer 3 drachm* 

Fixing soda solution 

Water..;;;;;;; ;;;; r 0Uliee iI1 g 

The process of developing and frPSJ 
with this solution is accomplished 1U 



,-T,iitps The picture first appears 
feW X Sngthens P very quickly, and 
portly after t& fi^g is entirely done. 

%SSw&t^* 100 cubic ceGti - 

m f:Xi^ tC ohot^ t 10 per cent 
golution (10 gram, carbonate m 100 
Zhic centimeters of water). 
e For use take equal parts and add water 
as desired. 
Imperial Standard Pyro Developer.— 
T — Metabisulphite of 

potassium 120 grams 

Pyrogallic acid. ... 55 grams 
Brurnide of potas- 
sium 20 grains 

Metol 45 grains 

Water 20 ounces 

IT —Carbonate of soda . 4 ounces 

Water 20 ounces 

For use mix equal parts I and II. 
Bardwell's Pyro -Acetone Developer.— 

Water 4 ounces 

Sulphite of sodium 
(saturated solu- 

ti on ) 4 drachms 

Acetone.'!. '. 2 drachms 

Pyro 10 grams 

Banff's Adurol Developer.— One so- 
lution. 

Water ...... 10 ounces 

Sulphide of sodium, 

crystals 4 ounces 

Carbonate of potas- 
sium 3 ounces 

Adurol .... I ounce 

For studio work and snap shots take 

1 part with 3 parts water. 

For time exposures out-door take 1 

part with 5 parts water. 

Glycin Developer. — 

I. — Hot water 10 ounces 

Sulphite of sodium, 

crystals . . . 1£ ounces 

Carbonate of sodium £ ounce 

Glycin i ounce 

Add to water in order given. 

II. — Water 10 ounces 

Carbonate of potash 1J ounces 

For normal exposure take I, 1 ounce 
II, 2 ounces; water, 1 ounce. 

Imogen. Developer. — 
I. — Hot water ........ 9 ounces 

Sulphite of sodium, 

crystals 385 grains 

Imogen 123 crams 



II. — Hot water 4£ ounces 

Carbonate of sodium 2 ounces 
For use take 2 ounces of I and 1 ounce 
of II. 

Diogen Developer. — 

Water 9 ounces 

Sulphite of sodium. . 3^ ounces 

Diogen 7 drachms 

Carbonate of potas- 
sium 4^ ounces 

For normal exposure take 4 drachm - 
of this solution; dilute with 2 ounces, 1 
drachm of water, and add % drops bromid 
of potassium, 10 per cent solution. 

Ortol Developer. — Formula by Pen 
large. 

I. — Water 1 ounce 

Metabisulphite of 

potassium 4 grains 

Ortol 8 grains 

II. — Water 1 ounce 

Sulphite of sodium. . 48 grams 
Carbonate of potas- 
sium 16 grains 

Carbonate of sodium 32 grains 
For use take equal parts I and II, a~ 
an equal bulk of water. 

Metacarbol Developer. — 

Metacarbol 25 grains 

Sulphite of soda, 

crystals 100 grains 

Caustic soda 50 grams 

Water, i0 ounces 

Dissolve the metacarbol in water then 
add the sulphite, and when dissolved add 
the caustic soda and falter. 



DEVELOPING POWDERS. 



I. — Pyrogallol . . . .... 

Sodium bisulphite 
Sodium carbonate 



By weigh 
0.3 parts 
1.2 parts 
1.2 parts 



"•-ISSp'mW.::: tig 

Potassium carbonate 1.5 parts 
m.-fydroquinone ..... 0 j par* 
Sodium sulphite...- »■* P 

«.p^^- 0 ^LirS 

besides, m a disso l ve d in about 

Fnr use, one powder is dissolve 
60 parts of distilled water. 
DEVELOPING PAPERS. 



1*8 

which row ta .™2r'e oaper, incondes- 

Mnt h e ht, ordij flight, latter pro- 
!i eb Yh7cov«ring* window with °na °J 

length of time to expose. 

TVnosure —The amount of exposure 
exposure. _ j.^ strength of the 

reauired vanes witn tlie strength ux 
SS; ittakes aboutthe same time with an 
ordinary gas burner and an incandescent 
Ikht; a Welsbach gas light requires only 
about one-half as much time as the ordi- 
nary gas burner, and a kerosene light ot 
ordinary size about three times as much 
as an ordinary gas burner. If day- 
light is to be used the window should be 
covered with post-office paper, in which 
a sub-window about 1 foot square for 
making the exposure may be made. 
Cover this window first with a piece of 
white tissue paper, then with a piece of 
black cloth or post-office paper to ex- 
clude the white light when not wanted. 
Make exposure according to strength of 
light at from 1 to 2 feet away from the 
tissue paper. Keep the printing frame 
when artificial light is used constantly in 
motion during exposure. 

Timing the Exposure.— The time 
necessary for exposing is regulated by 
density of negative and strength of light. 
The further away the negative is from 
the source of light at the time of ex- 

onrer to secure uniformity in exposure 
it ^ desirable always to malfc the exT Zrl 
^ ^ given d 13 tartce from the lightTsed 

to 10 rninS ? ordiriar y gas burner, from 1 

P^per amount ,f e ' ° nce the 

fxposure requS r.nT' the , a mount of 
"nated by Zkhw 2? ^ easil y a PP™x- 
the sime £l!^ Se r eat ex P°sures 
if bt; the Sydfc the sam « 

ln en b / n «^aTto " C l that il WouId 
a »ow for variatiS. ■ ? ake Wou] d be to 
aegativ es Vanatlon « density of different 

taimng clear Wa t ei .. eci to & tray con- 



PHOTOGBAPHY 



Washing. — Wash 1 hour t 
water, or in 10 or 1£ chan gea J^Sg 
water, allowing prints to SOa k i 
minutes in each change. * to - 

Pyrocatechin. Formula. — 

Solution A, 
Pyrocatechin ... a 
Sulphite of soda, Pans 



crystals © e 

Water i 0 o patts 

Solution B 
Carbonate of soda. 



Parts 



VVater 100 parts 

Before using mix 20 parts of Solnt; 
A, and i part of Solution B. ° OJut >ot i 

Metol Quinol. — 

Water.. in _„„ 

Metol 7 

o j ■ i / : : ' ' grams 

Sodium sulphite, 

crystals, pure j 0UQCe 

Hydroquinone 30 graiaa 

bodium carbonate, 

dessicated 200 grains 

(or 400 grains 

of crystallized 

carbonate). 
Ten per cent bro- 
mide of potassium 

solution, about. . . 10 drops 

Amidol Formula. — 

Water 4 ounces 

Sodium sulphite, 

crystals, pure . . . 200 grains 

Amidol, about 20 grains 

Ten per cent bro- 
mide of potas- 
sium solution, 

about 5 drops 

If the blacks are greenish, add more 
amidol; if whites are grayish, add more 
bromide of potassium. 

Hypo -Acid Fixing Bath. — 

Hypo 16 ounces 

Water 64 ounces 

Then add the following hardening 
solution: 

Water 5 ounces 

Sodium sulphite, 

crystals.... ... .. * ounC€ 

Commercial acetic 
acid (containing 
25 per cent pure s 

acid) ... V U «ce 

Powdered alum * oU 

Amidol Developer. — . , 

Amidol.... 2 grams 

Sodium sulphite. . - - 30 g ^ 

Potassium bromide. 1 ^ ,,'nce 

Water 1 011 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



529 



With a fairly correct exposure tins wlU 
r .„H to produce prints of a rich 
b f f ; fcne and of goo^d quality. The 
^fe secret Of successful bromide 




PPJS a b romile print, but this is not so, 
? <S>tive of good printing quality on 
*-*rt g l5S paper will also yield a good 
*5ffi£ bt iule paper, but considerable 
g ' and skill are P necessary to obtain a 
«H result from a poor negative The 
lite "eloper wilfaot keep in solut.on, 
should be freshly prepared as re- 
nnb-ed The same formula will also be 
?S useful for the development of 
fantern plates, but will only yield black- 
toned slides. 
PLATINUM PAPERS: 

General Instructions.— To secure the 
mostbrilliant results the sensitized paper, 
More, during, and after its exposure to 
light, must be kept as dry as Possible. 

The paper is exposed to daylight, in the 
printing frame, for about one-third of the 
time necessary for ordinary silver paper. 

The print is then immersed in the 
developer for about 30 seconds, then 
cleared in 3 acid baths containing 1 
part of muriatic acid C P. to 60 parts 
of water, washed for a short time in 
running water, the whole operation _ ot 
printing, clearing, and washing being 
complete in about half an hour. 

As a general rule all parts of the pic- 
ture except the highest lights should be 
visible when the exposure is complete. 

When examining the prints in the 
printing frames, care should be taken 
not to expose them unduly to light; for 
the degradation of the whites of the 
paper due to slight action of light is not 
visible until after development. 

Ansco Platinum Paper. — Print until a 
trace of the detail desired is slightly visi- 
ble in the high lights. 

Development. — Best results are ob- 
tained with the temperature of the de- 
veloper from 60° to 80° F. Immerse 
the print in the developer with a quick 
sweeping motion to prevent air bells. 
Develop in artificial or weak daylight. 
The development of a print from a nor- 
mal negative will require 40 seconds or 
more. 

Formula for Developer. — 

Water. 50 ounces 

Neutral oxalate of 

potash 8 ounces 

Potassium phos- 
phate (monobasic) 1 ounce 



Care must be used to obtain the mono- 
basic potassium phosphate. 

Immediately after prints are devel- 
oped, place them face down in the first 
acid bath, composed of 

Muriatic acid, C. P. 1 ounce 
Water 60 ounces 

After remaining in this bath for a pe- 
riod of about 5 minutes, transfer to the 
second acid bath of the same strength. 
The prints should pass through at least 
3 and preferably 4 acid baths, to re- 
move all traces of iron that may re- 
main in the pores of the paper. 

When thoroughly cleared, the print 
should be washed from 10 to 90 minutes 
in running water. If running water jte 
not available, several changes of water in 
the tray will be necessary. 

"Water Tone" Platinum Paper.- 
" Water tone" platinum paper is very 
easily affected by moisture; it will, there- 
fore, be noticed when printing in warm, 
damp weather that the print will show 
quite a tendency to print out black in the 
deep shadows. This must not be taker 
into consideration, as the same amount 
of exposure is necessary as in dry days. 

Print by direct light (sunlight pre- 
ferred) until the shadows are clearly out- 
lined in a deep canary color. At this stage 
the same detail will be observed in the 
half tones that the finished print 
show. For developing, use plain water 
heated to 120° P. (which will be as he 
as they can bear). . , 

The 7 development will be Pracbcal 
instantaneous, and care must be taken 
avoid air bubb es forming upo» the mi 



Place prints, 

developing, <Wct miT ,c f 
of muriatic acid, 1 drachm to 12 ounce 



face of .the P.^ y ^ a cfeari ng bat 



rea 
in 



of water, and let them remain m . 

jSX water. « • ^^{ft 
^rd^andm^ntVanaeningth 

corners. 

Bradley Platinum Pa per.-Developer 

^ For black tones : 

Neutral oxalate potas- g 

1 ounce 
80 ounces 

Water 

B —For sepia tones: 
" 0 f above mixed solu- g 

mercury solution . . ^ 
Citrate soda 



sium ■ • • • ■ - . - 

Potassium phosphate. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



If deep red tones are desired add toB 

Nitrate uranium 

Then filter and use as a developer. 

% C developing salts must be ais 
? j + „n7time as the salts are mixed; 
" TfMhis be not done, too large a pro- 
^oftioVof 'one of the ingredients may be 

^Development should be conducted in 
a feeble white light, similar to that used 
when cutting up the paper, or by gas 

lig It may take place immediately after 
the prin( is. exposed, or at the end of the 

day's printing. . , 

Develop by floating the print, exposed 
side downwards, on the developing solu- 
tion- * j 
Development may take 30 seconds or 

more. 



During the hot summer days it is not 
advisable to unduly delay the develop- 
ment of exposed prints, If possible 
develop within 1 hour after printing. 

Either porcelain or agate — preferably 
porcelain — dishes are necessary to hold 
the developing solution. 

To clear the developed prints: These 
must be washed in a series of baths (not 
less than three) of a weak solution of 
muriatic acid C. P. This solution is 
made by mixing 1 part of acid in 60 
parts of water. 

As soon as the print has been removed 
from the developing dish it must be im- 
mersed face downwards in the first bath 
I , thl . s a "d, contained in a porcelain 
dish in which it should remain about 5 

untTali T^^ 516 , ° th f P riDts 

SStE™t develo P ed - The P r ^ts 

must tnen be removed to a second acid 

While the nrint. ° -° Ut - 15 mi ™tes. 
taths t^tK^*™*™ 1" these acid 

solution has t Jl l, e m + ° Ved ?° the 
tWm by undtSric t io k n en ^ l ° abrade 

* CT^ 1 ? acid be used, 
fellow. 11 be discolored and turn 

^^eted° f Prints ^ acid 
Alter the nr' f i_ 

acid bath? th 6 P assed through 
\ ls ^m£ P ? ey s£ou ld be will 
^half rour^Jff, 3 °f *ater during 
a Pinch of w ,,i,: Jt 13 adv sable to hh3 

w*U lmng in t] J° gg^Ue any acid 
f «»t. Do not use 



•water that contains iron, as it * 

turn paper yellow. Soft water^ 8 ^ 

best for this purpose. ls t& e 

W. & C. Sepia Paper.-, With 
exceptions the method of earrvi ^ fe ^ 
the operations is the same . ls f ng 0l »t 
"black" kinds of platinotvU J tt(; 
The following points should be ^? aper - 
to: ^tended 

The "sepia" paper i 3 raoi . 
affected by faint light, and, tLS^ 
increased care must be taken v ' 
printing. 

To develop, add to each ounce of <v 
developing solution 1£ drachms of L3? 
solution supplied for this purpose 13 
proceed as described for black payer 

The solution must be heated t ' 
temperature of 150° to 160° P., to obta -3 
the greatest amount of brilliance and the 
warmest color, but very good results can 
be obtained by using a cooler developer 

Variations of the Sepia Developer — 
Primarily the object of the sepia solution 
the developer is to increase the 
brightness of the prints, as, for example, 
when the negative is thin and flat, or 
pense and flat, the addition of the sepia 
solution to the developer clears up, to 
some extent, the flatness of the print by 
taking out traces of the finer detail in the 
higher lights, which is often a decided 
improvement. If, however, the nega- 
tive be dense, with clear shadows, the 
sepia solution may be discarded alto- 
gether. This will prevent the loss of 
any of the finer detail and greatly reduce 
harshness in the prints. Sometimes a 
half, or even a quarter, of the quantity 
of the sepia solution recommended as an 
addition to the developer will be suffi- 
cient, depending altogether upon the 
strength of the negatives. Prints de- 
veloped without the solution have less or 
the sepia quality but are very agreeable 
nevertheless. It should be remembered 
that the sepia paper is totally different 
from the black, and will develop sep| 
tones on a developer to which no septa 
solution has been added. The sejfg 
solution clears up and brightens the Mj 
muddy (to some extent, not J ot8J '£ 
effects from the thinner class oi « e 6 
tives. 

The Glycerine Process.— The g'j^ 
erine process," or the process oi 
veloping platinotype prints by apP 
turn of the developing agent Wi» - , 
brush, is perhaps one of the most u j( , 
estmg and fascinating of P hoto S "£jng 
processes, owing to its far-rea*- 
possibilitie3. 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



531 



n v this method of developing platino- 
By It manv negatives which have 
PliSrded on afcount of the dim, 

EST noSo4W_ lf± J±±;^I 



i in the hands of one possessing a 
P i 'ortktic skill, produce snappy, ani- 
nttle / £ tnres On the other hand, 
S^tfiXV and hard negative, soft, 
f lXl v effects may be secured, 
sk There are required for this process: 
« «lUs mrs; some soft brushes, vary- 
^Tfrot the fine spotter and the Japan- 
lD6 £n?h to the 1 1-inch duster, and sev- 
^^ofspM blotting paper 

Manipulation.-Print the paper a trifle 
i „™ than for the ordinary method ot 
fSI nine Kace the print face up on 
f ; ece P ofclein glass (should the print 
JuS so that it is unmanageable, moisten 
X Aass with glycerine), and, with the 
loatclmersiat brush, thinly coat the 
entire print with pure glycerine, blotting 
same off in 3 or 4 seconds; then recoat 
Sore thickly such portions as are desired 
Specially restrained, or the details 
partly or entirely eliminated Now 
Ush or paint such portion of the print 
as is first desired with solution of 1 part 
glycerine and 4 parts normal developer 
blotting the portion being developed 
from time to time to avoid developing 
too far. Full strength developer (with- 
out glycerine) is employed where a pro- 
nounced or deep shade is wanted. 

When any part of the print has reached 
the full development desired, blot that 
portion carefully with the blotter and 
coat with pure glycerine. 

A brown effect may be obtained by 
using saturated solution of mercury in 
the developer (1 part mercury to 8 parts 
developer). By the use of diluted mer- 
cury the "flesh tones" are produced m 
portraits, etc. 

"When print has reached complete 
development, place in hydrochloric 
(muriatic) acid and wash as usual 



freshly prepared solution, and colder 
tones still if the developing solution be 
faintly acidified. The repeated heating 
of the solution of the neutral salt ap- 
parently has the effect of rendering the 
bath slightly alkaline by the conversion 
of a minute proportion of the oxalate into 
potassium carbonate. If this be the 
case, it allows a little latitude in choice 
of tone which may be useful. Some 
photographers recommend the use of 
potassium phosphate with the neutral 
oxalate, stating that the solution should 
be rendered acid by the addition of a 
small proportion of oxalic acid. "When 
the potassium phosphate was first 
recommended for this purpose, probably 
the acid salt, KH s P0 4 , was intended, by 
the use of which cold steely black tones 
were .obtained. The use of the oxalic 
acid with the ordinary phosphate K s HPO«, 
is probably intended to produce the same 
result. 

THE CARBON PROCESS. 

The paper used is coated on on 
surface with a mixture of gelatin an 
some pigment (the color of which de 
pends upon the color the required prm 
is to be), and then allowed to dry.. When 
required for printing it is sensitized by 
floating upon a solution of bichromate of 
potassium, and then again drying, in the 
Sark this time. The process is based 
upon the action of light upon this film of 
cfromatized gelatin; wherever the hgh 
reaches, the gelatin is rendered msol 
ii hie even in hot water. 

The paper is exposed in the usual way. 
Butwth? appearance of the paper be- 
fore and after printing ^W^^ U* 

piece b „i,niit the same density, 



Eastman's Sepia Paper.— This paper 
is about 3 times as rapid as blue paper. 
It should be under rather than over 
printed, and is developed by washing in 
plain water. After 2 or 3 changes of 
water fix 5 minutes in a solution of hypo 
m grains to the ounce of water), and 
afterwards wash thoroughly. 

Short fixing gives red tones. Longer 
fixing produces a brown tone. 

Development of Platinum Prints. — 
In the development of platinotype prints 
by the hot bath process, distinctly warmer 
tones are obtained by using a bath 
which has been several times heated, 
colder blacks resulting from the use of a 



-JT' The 

""t Sen^ovd f»rn thfprin.ing 
paper is then remote wa ter, 
FraW and ^mersed m cold ^ ^ 
which removes a great a eg 

chromate of po to ;«»». «Vn floated 
the prm he out flat^ & and 

on to what is KUU * U x f ace down- 

wards, and allowed I together 
minutes. 1 hen i «« |-r watcr for 
with the pnnt, is placed , 

a ±2,»"S «£• oil at the edges the 
SSSS&'S' Ma^nd pW«nt 



532 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



The gelatin and 



JlVeTenlreate'd with hot water 



f«^niM tiie hot water over the face 
k !u .Zuort by means of a sponge, 
of the sU PP^ rt t ^ so l u ble gelatin, and 

^'reason for transferring the g«Ia- 



tin 



fffSfilVt t£ back of the film an< 
f« order to set at it to remove it, it is 
^ec^y toiansfer it to a support In 
this condition the print can be dried J. nd 
mounted, but on consideration it will be 
seen that the picture " ™ * 
position, that is to say, that the nght- 
K side of the original has become the 
left, and vice versa. 

If the picture be finished m this con- 
dition, it is said to have been done by the 
single transfer method. In some in- 
stances this reversal would be of no con- 
sequence, such as some portraits, but 
with views which are known this would 
never do. In order to remedy this state 
of affairs, the picture is transferred once 
more, by pressing, while wet, upon an- 
other support, and allowed to dry upon 
it; wheu separated, the picture remains 
upon the latter support, and is in its 
right position. This is what is known 
as the double transfer method. When 
the double transfer method is used, the 
first support consists of a specially pre- 
pared support, which has been waxed in 
order to prevent the pictures from ad- 
hering permanently to it; this is then 
known as a temporary support. The 
paper upon which the print is finally 
received is prepared witn a coating of 
gelatin, and is known as the final sup- 

LAHTERN SLIDES. 

^Ih'takln? o'f T d Slide - be ^ ins 
ftt^o*- m . aK1 , n g of the negative the 

XTa° n n dhe\t th h CaSeS bef "S d«Sj 
which is the L^n f maste ^« the first, 
^"Ito ir^*'^ J° f successful 

B^^Br ' ?Hged 

magnified two to fi? 



appears to be when h°eld 
appearance when 
the Scree ^ nve thou^nd times on 

J»t»Mce and deanL!! a gr °, S3 fau,t - 
necessary. Th/~ * 83 are absolutely 
£ observed to C , autio » -hoiilS 



ex 
h 

on 



sposure and development, for Smn i, 
oles and dust spots, hardly no i; " P'n- 

huge nr^ a °le 
u b« prop 0rti 



the slide, assume 
the scree 
from the slide's beauty. 

The high lights in a slide should ■ 
rare cases only, be represented bv i 111 
glass, an d the shadows should abivC* 

in tlio A J s b 



on the screen and detract mi? ■ n « 



transparent, even in the d 



The balance between 



these extre mL ! a 



should be a delicate gradation 

the other ™ 1 totl1 



The contr ast 
and th e 



from one to 

between the strongest high light 
deepest shadow should be enough f* 
give brilliancy without hardness kM 
delicacy or softness without being flat 
This is controlled also, to some extent h 
the subject summer sunshine requital 
a more vigorous rendering than hazf 
autumn effects, and herein each indi- 
vidual must decide for himself what i 
most necessary to give the correct por- 
trayal of the subject. It is a good idea 
to procure a slide, as near technically 
perfect as possible, from some slide- 
making friend, or dealer, to use it as a 
standard, and to make slide after slide 
from the same negative until a satis- 
factory result is reached. 

A black tone of good quality is usu- 
ally satisfactory for most slides, but it is 
very agreeable to see interspersed a va- 
riety of tone, and beautiful slides can be 
made, where the subject warrants, in 
blue, brown, purple, and even red and 
green, by varying the exposure and de- 
velopment and by using gold or uranium 
toning baths and other solutions for that 
purpose, the formulas and materials for 
which are easily obtainable from the 
magazines and from stock dealers, re- 
spectively. 

It must be understood, however, that 
these toning solutions generally act as 
intensifies, and that if toning is contem- 
plated, it should be borne in mind at the 
time of developing the slide, so that it 
may not finally appear too dense, los- 
ing will improve otherwise weak slmes, 
but will not help under-exposed ones, a 
its tendency will be in such case to in- 
crease the contrast, which in such sJi 
is already too great. Another me P% 
of getting a fine quality of slides is 
make rather strong exposures to « 
develop, and then to reduce with 
phate of ammonium. , . fte 

The popular methods of w 3 *"?" t he 
exposure are: First, by contact i» ^ 
printing frame, just as prints are 
on velox or other developing pap eT '.^ 0 f 
vided the subject on the negative e 
the right size for a lantern slide; an 
other and better method is the caw 



. j bv which the subject of any 
metboa. j or sma]lj or any p ai . t 
negative, ^ reduced or enlarged, 
tbC J e t°Uu3 brought to the proper size dc- 
*. nd J for the slide. This is quite a 
sl red iu , should be considered and 
kna j- A hv the slide maker very care- 

ial ll' r J and inflexible rules cannot be 
, *H dowii in this relation Portrait 
W r . «f bust or three-fourths figures 
rtU hSv fi-u i need not be made for a 
01 ba b3 „7 n ; n!? than U by 2 inches, and 
Wappca 'to good advantage if made 
S Tbtt smaller. Figure or group 
q ;^mis with considerable back- 
Sd ac-sories, may, of course, 
I lareer opening to suit the par- 

g^ «dSffi*£'c»* Monuments, tall 
SdYngs, and the like shou d have the 
be nefit of the whole height of mat open- 
in, of 2f inches, and should be made of 
a size to fill it out properly, providing, 
however for sufficient foreground and a 
n?oper sky line. Landscapes and marine 
views generally can be made to fill out 
Se fun length of mat opening, which, 
however, should not exceed 4 inches, 
Sd may be of any height to suit the sub- 
iect up to 2J inches. , 
The subject should be well centered 
on the plate and the part intended to be 
shown as the picture should be well 
within the size of the mat opening de- 
cided upon, so that with a slight varia- 
tion of the placing of the mat no part of 
the picture will be cut off by the carrier 
in the stereopticon. The horizon line m 
a landscape, and more particularly in a 
marine view, should always be m proper 
position, either below or above the center 
line of the slide, as may suit the subject, 
but should never divide the picture m the 
middle and should not appear to be run- 
ning either up or down hill. And the ver- 
tical lines in the pictures should not be 
leaning, but should run parallel with the 
side lines of the mat; this refers espe- 
cially to the vertical lines in architecture, 
except, however, the Tower of Pisa and 
kindred subjects, which should in every 
case be shown with their natural inclina- 
tions 



As to time of exposure, very little can 
be said. That varies with the different 
makes of plates, with the quality of the 
light, and the nature and density of 
each individual negative. Therefore 
every one must be a judge unto himselt 
and make as good a guess as he can for 
the first trial from each negative and 
gauge further exposures from the results 
thus obtained; but this much may be 
said, that a negative strong in contrast 



should be given a long exposure, close 
to the light, if artificial light is used, or in 
strong daylight, and developed with a 
weak or very much diluted developer to 
make a soft slide with full tone values. 
And a flat, weak negative will yield bet- 
ter results if exposed farther from the 
light or to a weaker light, and developed 
by a normal or more aggressive de- 
veloper. Over exposure and under ex- 
posure show the same results in slide 
plates as in negative plates, and the treat- 
ment should be similar in both kinds of 
plates except that, perhaps, in cases of 
under exposure of slide plates, the better 
plan would be to cast them aside and 
make them over, as very little can be done 
with them. For getting bright and 
clear effects it is now well understood 
that better and more satisfactory results 
are obtained by backing the slide plates 
as well as by backing negative plates. 
This is accomplished by coating the back 
or glass side of the plate with the follow- 
ing mixture: 

Gum arable Jounce 

Caramel 1 ounce 

Burnt sienna 2 ounces 

Alcohol 2 ounces 

Mix and apply with small sponge or 
wad of absorbent cotton. 

It should coat thin and smooth and 
dry hard enough so it will not rub off 
when handled. If the plates are put into 
a lieht-proof grooved box as last as 
backed they can be used about half an 
houf after being coated. Before devel- 
oping thYs backing should be removed; 
SE£ Tis best done by first wetting the 
fi m side of the plate under the tap 
which will prevent staining it, and tben 

in a iew u nt i 1PT preparations for 
may proceed. Other P re H bc 
this" purpose, ready tor ™e, maX 

f rfd be S'refSS fleeted or cut of a 
should be caret uny object to 

size and shape Ic ' sj 0 * ^ d cover e very- 
b est advantage and sbouio ^ 

thing not wa " ted '"" cd 2| x 2* inches 

^ Cni ; e cai° U and n must not % ried or 
in any case, ana ux symmetrical. 

toy, but tf square mats 

The lines of the °P*; m ou tside lines 

;hould be P^J^/round, or other 



of the plate. Oval, £ ^ ^ g used 
various y cases only 

-t- of & -hject will war- 
rant their t best advantage 



5S4 

Ll> ;= * n <nlvdone with a small caroel's- 
?^MS?i Wh and opaque or india 
^t 1 " S a retouching frame, a good eye 
i steady hand %eing the onJy addl- 
ed a st^aj ^ trea tment 

S also be applied to some flower 

ind other botanical subjects. 
%tain" maj be performed with the 
j i J a tatio/er's spring clamp such as 
" used for holding papers together, and 
can be purchased for 10 cents. Cut the 
binding strips the length of the sides and 
eids of the slide, and gum them on 
Separately, rubbing them firmly in con- 
Set with the glass with a piece of cloth 
or an old handkerchief, which might be 
kept handy for that purpose, so that the 
binding may not loosen or peel off alter 
the slides are handled but half a dozen 
times. Before storing the slides away 
for future use they should be properly 
labeled and named. The name label 
jhould be affixed on the right end of the 
face of the slide as you look at it in its 
proper position, and should contain the 
maker's name and the title of the slide. 
The thumb label should be affixed to the 
lower left-hand corner of the face of the 
slide, and may show the number of the 
slide. 

HOW TO UTILIZE WASTE MA- 
TERIAL. 

Undoubtedly spoiled negatives form 
the greatest waste. The uses to which a 
ruined negative may be put arc mani- 
fold. Cut down to 8£ inches square and 
the films cleaned off, they make excellent 
cover glasses for lantern slides. An- 
other use for them in the same popular 
branch of photography is the following; 
if, during development, you see that 
your negative JS spoiled through uneven 
density, over exposure, or what not ex- 

■idle to Ji VJ? Sealin S Wax fas *en a 
fiSmt etnSf^ 01 ^' an - d h ? means of 
duVram slid If? M T ^ ma ™facture 

ill the.ave7Jalf ft n q T ^' 1 issoIve oub 

™th sandpape? an d ' ^' TUh 

splendid auhS?+, ♦ * y ° U nav e a 

another n^tL* T?*^*™** 
*** thorouehFv* but tbis time 

thl * a p rint , anYan SST 6 " .down on 
r eward\ Prom pallne wiU b ^ your 

mentis on a £L lch ar \ °Paline, by ce- 

otter £ £ °»n be made. An- 
lQla> Bleach them in 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



1 



bichloride of mercury, back them 
black paper, and positives will ^ 
Old negatives also make good trim 111 '- 
boards, the film preventing a ranid u 
im of the knife, and they ^ '{^4 
cessf ully used as mounting tables c\^~ 
off the films, polish with French i f" 
and squeegee your prints +hJ ' 
When dry they may be removed ar^ 1 ?' 
have a fine enameled, if hardly ar H r 
appearance. Many other uses for it ' 
may also be found if the amateur is S?l 
ingenious. a N 
Users of pyro, instead of throwing tv 
old developer away, should keep som P 
it and allow it to oxidize. A thin a 
tive, if immersed_ in this for a few m^* 
utes, will be stained a deep vellow all 
over, and its printing quality will b 
much improved. e 
Old hypo baths should be saved, and 
when a sufficient quantity of silver is 
thought to be in solution, reduced to 
recover the metal. 

Printing paper of any sort is another 
great source of waste, especially to the 
inexperienced photographer. Prints are 
too dark or not dark enough success- 
fully to undergo the subsequent opera- 
tions. Spoiled material of this kind, 
however, is not without its uses in 
photography. Those who swear by the 
'combined bath," will find that scraps of 
printing-out paper, or any silver paper, 
are necessary to start the toning action. 

Spoiled mat surface, printing -out 
paper, bromide paper, or platinotype 
should be allowed to blacken all over. 
Here we have a dead-black surface use- 
ful for many purposes. A leak in the 
bellows when out in the field may be 
repaired temporarily by moistening a 
piece of mat printing-out. paper and stick- 
ing it on the leak; the gelatin will cause 
it to adhere. These papers may also 
be used to back plates, platinotypes, of 
course, requiring some adhesive mixture 
to make them slick. 

In every photographer's possession 
there will be found a small percentage ot 
stained prints. Instead of throwing 
these away, they may often be turned to 
good account in the following manner. 
Take a large piece of cardboard, some 
mountant, and the prints. Now P r °^f 
to mount them tastefully so that u 
corners of some overlap, aT ™ n % w Lve 
every case to hide the stain. If Y° v na „ 
gone properly to work, you will na™. ^ 
artistic mosaic. Now wash round 
india ink, or paint a border of le» v 
and the whole thing wiU form a vef > 
neat "tit bit." . be - 

Keep the stiff bits of cardboard 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



5S5 



^ p „n winch printing paper is packed, 
t^een ^ f ul n many ways— from 

Tbey ne Crdfin the dark slide to parti- 
Sons between negatives in the storing 

^'reclaiming old gold solutions, all 
,J u ds containing gold, with the excep- 
ISn of baths of which cyan.de form a 



a rt. must be strongly ac du ated with 
SEfeSSSc or sulphuric acid, if they are 
nt ^ ready acid in their nature. They 
L°e afterwards diluted with a large pro- 
lo Jon of ordinary water, and a solution 
T sulphate of fcrroprotoxide (green 
vfriol) is poured in in excess. It IS 
J cognised that the filtered liquid no 
! r contains gold when the addi ion 
of a new quantity of ferric sulphate Goes 
B ot occasion any cloudiness Gold 
precipitated in the form of a reddish or 
Kackish powder is collected on a filter 
and dried in an oven with weights equal 
to its own of borax, saltpeter, and car- 
bonate of potash. The mass « after- 
wards introduced gradually into a fire- 
proof crucible and carried to a white-red 
teat in a furnace. When all the matter 
has been introduced, a stronger blast is 
given by closing the furnace, so that all 
the metal collects at the bottom of the 
crucible. On cooling, a gold ingot, 
chemically pure, will be obtained. I his 
mode of reduction is also suitab e tor 
impure chloride of gold, and for the re- 
moval of gilding, but not for solutions 
containing cyanides, which never give up 
all the gold they contain; the best means 
of treating the latter consists in evaporat- 
ing them to dryness in a cast-iron boiler, 
and in calcining the residue in an earthen 
crucible at the white red. A small 
quantity of borax or saltpeter may be 
added for facilitating the fusion, but it 
is not generally necessary. The gold 
separated collects at the bottom of the 
crucible. It is red, if saltpeter is em- 
ployed; and green, if it is borax. 

To reclaim silver place the old films, 
plates, paper, etc., in a porcelain dish, so 
arranged that they will burn readily. To 
facilitate combustion, a little kerosene or 
denatured alcohol poured over the con- 
tents will be found serviceable. 

Before blowing off the burnt paper, 
place the residue in an agateware dish, 
the bottom of which is covered with a 
solution of saltpeter and water. Place 
the whole on the fire, and heat it until 
the silver is separated as a nitrate. 

The solution being complete, add to 
the mass a little water and hydrochloric 
acid, when in a short time the serviceable 
silver chloride will be obtained. _ If the 
films should nox give up their silver as 



freely as the plates, then add a little more 
hydrochloric acid or work them up 
separately. Silver reclaimed in this way 
is eminently suitable for silver-plating 
all sorts of objects. 

FIXING AND CLEARING BATHS: 

The Acid Fixing and Clearing Bath. — 
Add 2 ounces of S. P. C. clarifier (acid 
bisulphite of sodium) solution to 1 quart 
of hypo solution 1 in 5. 



Combined Alum and Hypo Bath. — 
Add saturated solution of sulphite of 
sodium to saturated solution of alum till 
the white precipitate formed remains un- 
dissolved, and when the odor of sul 
phurous acid becomes perceptible. 

Mix this solution with an equal bul 
of freshly prepared hypo solution 1 in 5, 
and filter. 

This bath will remain clear. 

Clearing Solution (Edward's), 

Alum 1 ounce avoirdupo 

Citric acid. . 1 ounce avoirdupo' 
Sulphate of 
iron, crys- 
tals 3 ounces avoirdupo 

Water 1 imperia 1 ; ^t 

This should be freshly mixed. 
Clearing Solution. — 
Saturated solution of 

alum 20 ounces 

Hydrochloric acid 1 ounce 

Immerse negative after fixing and 
washing. Wash well after removal. 

Reducer for Gelatin Dry-Plate Nega- 
tives. — 

I. — Saturated solution of 
ferricyanide of po- 
tassium v 1 P art 

H ^^on^?S) 10 parts 
H^Pcrchlondeofiron.. 30 grains 

Belitski's Acid L Ferric-Oxalate Re 
ducerfor Gelatin Plates.— 

Water * V 

Potassium ferric oxal- 

ate , ' .' i " 

Crystallized neutral , achms 
sulphite of sodium 2 drachms 
Powdered oxahcaad,^ ^ 

HypoTulphiteofsoda. ljo«W^ 

°i rder i Wtles andls under the influence 
S°!&?ffie£ic salt is reduced to f.» 



7 ounces 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



%5 cubic centimeters 
4 cubic centimeters 



l the preparation must be kept in 
fued light" in non-acUnic glass bot- 

Ortbochromatic Dry P^V^^e- 
e Bath (Mailman and Scohk).— Ire 

inary bath: 
Wa ter 200 cubic centimeter 

St SoS. am : % cubic centimeters 
Soak a plate for 2 minutes. 

Color bath: 
Erythrosine 
solution (1 
in 1,000) . 
Stronger 
ammonia 
(0.900) ... 
Water 175 cubic centimeters 

The plate should not remain longer in 
the bath than l \ minutes. 

PAPER-SENSITIZING PROCESSES: 

Blueprint Paper. — I. — The ordinary 
blue photographic print in which white 
lines appear on a blue ground may be 
made od "-er prepared as follows: 
A. — Potassium fcrri cya- 
nide. 10 drachms 

Distilled water 4 ounces 

-8. — Iron ammonia citrate. 15 drachms 
Distilled water. ...... 4 ounces 

Mix when wanted for use, filter, and 
apply to the surface of the paper. 

With this mixture no developer is re- 
quired. The paper after exposure is 
simply washed in water to remove the 
unaltered iron salts. The print is im- 
proved by immersion in dilute hydro- 
chloric acid after which it must be again 
well washed in water. 



^r^' EleCtric Rapid" Blue Print 

ints 
ater 
13 

15. 
15. 



C. 
B. 

B. 



8 
1 

1% 



"tv^iJ^ ammoniura <*alate 

At u \ ° n SodiuTn palate 
•4/4 lbs -Iron ammonium citrate 

u/ lh t SS1Um fer "cyanide 
I A lb. I ron potassium oxalate 

Mi * for use as f0 „ 



2. 
15. 



pints of 
pint of 
pints of 



A. 
B. 
O. 



Pint of B. 
pints of B, 
pints of Water 



, % 



iVo. 8 Formula 
pints water 

ozs. Potassium ferricy a nia e 
oz. Iron ammonium citrat^ 
1% ozs. Iron sodium oxalate ^ 
6Yz ozs. Iron ammonium oxalate 

2Vo. 3 Formula 
4% pints water 
sy 4 ozs. Iron sodium oxalate 
Vlq oz - Potassium bichromate 
5 ozs. Iron ammonium citrate 
4 %00 oz - I ron oxalate 
1% oz. Potassium ferricyanide 
% oz. Citric acid 

These three formulas for Blue P r jnt 
Paper are superior to the general run of 
so called "Electric Rapid" printing pa _ 
per in respect to retaining color when 
re-exposed to sunlight. Prints made on 
the old style "Electric Rapid" Blue Print 
Paper fade when re-exposed to sunlight. 
These do not. 

III. — Dissolve 3f ounces of ammonia 
citrate of iron in 18 ounces of water, and 
put in a bottle. Then dissolve 2| ounces 
of red prussiate of potash in IS ounces of 
water, and put in another bottle. When 
ready to prepare the paper, have the sheets 
piled one on top of the other, coating but 



light 



a 



Ul LUC ULUCi, UUUllilg "I" 

one at a time. Darken the room, and 
light a ruby lamp. Now, mix thor- 
oughly equal parts of both solutions and 
apply the mixture with a sponge in long 
parallel sweeps, keeping the application 
as even as possible. Hang the paper in 
the dark room to dry and keep it dark 
until used. Any of the mixture Ml 
from sensitizing the paper should oe 
thrown away, as it deteriorates rapidly. 

Often, in making blueprints by sUflw 
light, the exposure is too long, and waen 
the frame is opened the white \™ eS ,?* 
the print are faint or obscure. UaU *S 
these prints are relegated to the W 



prluio mc lensgaicu i >-• , 

basket; but if, after being w-" ie 0 k 
usual, they are sponged with ? 
solution of chloride of iron, their ret < 
mation is almost certain. When the n 
reappear, the print should be tiling' J 
rinsed in clear water. , . , nrl - n ts 

Often a drawing, from which P r 
have already been made, requires cM> | 
W , The blueprints then on h fl " d *«* 
worthless, requiring more time to cox 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



557 



;t would take to make a new print. 
\ h recoi7omical way of using the worth- 
, A nrints is to cancel the drawing al- 
fady Xreon, sensitize the reverse side, 
and use the paper again. 
How to Make Picture Postal Cards 
Jl Photographic Letter Heads.— -I.— 
w 11 si/cd L paper is employed. If the 
^ ■ l houlS be insufficient, resizing can 
EfdSiwSdS a 10 per cent gelatin so lu- 
*• n with a 2 per cent arrowroot paste, 
Sith i 50 per cent decoction of carra- 
^ThisLe is applied on the crude 
moVr with a brush and al owed to dry. 
B£ well-sized or resized papers are 
superior and the picture becomes strong- 
er on them than on insufficiently sized 
paper. Coat this paper uniformly with 
S solution of 154 grams of ferric oxalate 
in 3^ fluidounces of distilled water, using 
a brush, and allow to dry. Next, apply 
the solution of 15$ grains of silver nitrate 
in U fluidounces of water with a second 
brush, and dry again. Coating and dry- 
ing must be conducted with ruby light or 
in the dark. 

The finished paper keeps several days. 
Print deep so as to obtain a strong pic- 
ture and develop in the following bath: 



Distilled water. . . 
Potassium oxal- 
ate (neutral) . . 
Oxalic acid 



3£ fluidounces 



3£ fluidounces 
75 grains 

80 minims 



340 grains 
4 grains 

After developing the well-washed 
prints, fix them preferably in the follow- 
ing bath: 

Distilled water . . 
Sodium thiosul- 

phate 

Gold chloride 
solution (1 in 

100) 

Any other good bath may be em- 
ployed. 

II. — Starch is dissolved in water and 
the solution is boiled until it forms a 
thin paste. Carmine powder is added, 
and the mixture is rapidly and assidu- 
ously stirred until it is homogeneous 
throughout. It is now poured through 
muslin and spread by means of a suit- 
able pencil on the paper to be sensitized. 
Let dry, then float it, prepared side down 
on a solution of potassium chromate, 30 
parts in 520 parts of distilled water, being 
careful to prevent any of the liquid from 
getting on the back or reverse side. Dry 
m the dark room, and preserve in dark- 
ness. When desired for use lay the neg- 
ative on the face of the paper, and expose 
to the full sunlight for 5 or 6 minutes (or 



about an hour in diffused light). Wash- 
ing in plenty of water completes the proc- 
ess. 

A Simple Emulsion for Mat or Print- 
ing-Out Paper. — One of the very best 
surfaces to work upon for coloring in 
water color is the carbon print. Apart 
from its absolute permanency as a base, 
the surface possesses the right tooth fo 
the adhering of the pigment. It is jus" 
such a surface as this that is require 
upon other prints than carbon, both fo 
finished mat surfaces and for the pur 
poses of coloring. The way to ob 
tain this surface upon almost any kin 
of paper, and to print it out so that th 
correct depth is ascertained on sigh 
will be described. Some of the crayon 
drawing papers can be utilized, as well 
as many other plain photographic papers 
that may meet the desires of the pho- 
tographer. If a glossy paper is desired, 
the emulsion should be coated on a 
baryta-coated stock. 

There will be required, in the first, 
place, 2 half-gallon stoneware crocks . 
with lids. The best shape to employ is 
a crock with the sides running straight, 
with no depressed ridge at the top. One 
of these crocks is for the preparation of 
the emulsion, the other to receive the 
emulsion when filtered. An enameled 
iron saucepan of about 2 gallons capac- 
ity will be required in which to stand 
the crock for preparing the emulsion 
and also to remelt the emulsion alter it 
has become set. The following is the 
formula for the emulsion, which must be 
prepared and mixed in the order given 
SaiFure will be impossible if these details 
nrp scrupulously attended to. 

Havm" procured 2 half-gallon stone- 
ware crocks with lids, clean them out 
"el? with hot and cold water, and place 
into one of these the following: 

Distilled water....... 10 ounces 

Gelatin (Heinnch s, 

hard) . . - • ... 

Cut tl» Jg£ 

beneath the waitu h 

of glass and aHow |0 * ™ er _ soa ked 
Now proceed to melt tne k ^ 



Kwhifrthe gelatin is melting: 



588 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



No. 1 

B<.ch f « r »'t- •JgsSST 

Distilled water 

No. 3 



Chloride of ammo- ^ 



grains 



mum- * nimce 

Distilled water. 1 ounce 

No. 3 
Nitrate of silver, 

1 ounce and. ... ■• 75 S rams 
ritrir acid (crushed 

crvstalS... 95 grams 

DiSed water 10 ounce, 

No. 4 

Powdered white alum 90 grains 
Distilled water (hot).. 5 ounces _ 
• The latter solution may be made with 
boiling water. When these solutions 
are prepared, pour into the hot gelatin 
solution No. 1, stirring all the while with 
a clean glass rod. Then add No 2. 
Rinse the vessel with a little distilled 
water, and add to the gelatin. Now 
while stirring gradually, add No. 3, and 
lastly add No. 4, which may be very hot. 
This will cause a decided change in the 
color of the emulsion. Lastly add 2 
ounces of pure alcohol (photographic). 
This must he added very gradually with 
vigorous stirring, because if added too 
quickly it will coagulate the gelatin 
and form insoluble lumps. The emul- 
sion must, of course, be mixed under a 
light not stronger than an ordinary small 
gas-jet, or under a yellow light obtained 
by covering the windows with yellow 
paper. The cover may now be placed 
upon the crock, and the emulsion put 
aside for % or 3 days to ripen. 

At the end of this time the contents of 
the crock, now formed into a stiff emul- 
sion, may be re melted in hot water bv 
Placing the crock in the enameled S a Uce - 



mTv b7w gaS St > Ve - The e *^ion 
may be broken up by cutting it with a 
dean bone or hJd-iu^™ 

Stir the mix 



to facilitate ^^[^ er ^ C - ^ 

iUTnta n d a Khe U MI dis 
ft- *t n . n a( ?d the following as soon as 



the emulsion has rMn^Tf °" uu as 
of about 150° P ^ reacbed a temperature 

Distilled water * 
^re alcohol jounces 
fpu. . . 1 ounce 

best accomplished^ tV in n l ™g ™ 
n *r: Take an nil; he f< ? Uowi ng man- 
™* lamp ch j n 7 Plain-top kero- 
e ?d two thicW?/' he f over the small 
cloth. Invert the ?'- 0f Washed <*» 



cese 



an ordinary egg. Press 
down upon the cheese cloth. pu^V? 
chimney in the - ; 
cut a hole abou 



- cloth ? efu Uj 
ring of a retort stand V 1 
t 3 inches in diJ2£?.fo* 



wooden shelf), so that the 'croclT ^ a 



stand conveniently beneath 



chimney place a strip 0 f gl asg "~ ,' fle 
upon the cotton, to prevent the o h 8 
from lifting. Now pour in the hot er \ 
sion and allow the whole of it to fin 
through the absorbent cotton 
accomplished, we are now ready f 
coating the paper, which is best done W 
the following manner: 1X1 

Cut the paper into strips or sheet 
say 12 inches wide and the fulrWitth t 
the sheet. This will be, let us S S,? 
12 x 26 inches. At tach, by means of £ 
well-known photographic clips, a stri 
of wood at each end of the paper U po n 
the back. Ihree clips at each end will 
be required. Having a number of 
sheets thus prepared, the emulsion 
should be poured into a porcelain pan or 
tray, kept hot by standing within another 
tray containing hot water. The emul- 
sion tray being, say, 11 x 14 size, the 
paper now is easily coated by holding 
the clipped ends in each hand, then hold- 
ing the left end of the paper up, and the 
right-hand end lowered so that the curve 
of the paper just touches the emulsion. 
Then raise the right hand, at the same 
time lowering the left hand at the same 
rate. Then Tower the right hand, lifting 
the left. Repeat tins operation once 
more; then drain the excess of emulsion 
at one corner of the tray, say, the left- 
hand corner. Just as soon as the emul- 
sion has drained, the coated sheet of 
paper may be hung up to dry, by 1 the 
hooks attached to the clips, upon a piece 
of copper wire stretched from side to 
side of a spare closet or room that can be 
kept darkened until the paper is dry. In 
this way coat as much paper as may be 
required. When it is dry it may be 
rolled up tight or kept flat under pressure 
until needed. 

If any emulsion remains it may Jjj-j 
kept in a cool place for 2 weeks, and SW 
be good for coating. Be sure to cltun 
out all the vessels used before the e»nj 
sion sets, otherwise this will present 
difficult task, since the emulsion sets jm 
an almost insoluble condition. , 
This emulsion is so made that it ao 
?ot require to be washed. If it is 
it will become spoiled. It is easy 
make and easy to use. If it 13 d f*L 
that only sma ]] snccts of pape r are to 
coated, they may be floated on the effl" 
sion, but in this case the paper 
damp, which is easily accomplish 



witis a sheet of blotting paper, then 
raring this with two dry sheets of blot- 
pap«. Place the sheets to be 
* g * A irnon these, and place under 
C ° at de during the night. Next day 
B5 £ II be in good condition for floating. 

When the coated paper is dry it may 
, p orinted and toned just the same as any 
other printing-out paper, with any toning 
bath and fixed in hyposulphite of soda 
-f iisual Toning may be carried to a 
rich blue black, or if not earned too far 
"ill remain a beautiful sepia color. 
After well washing and drying, it will be 
nbserved that the surface corresponds 
with that of a carbon print; if the paper 
has been of a somewhat absorbent char- 
acter the surface will be entirely mat, and 
will eive an excellent tooth for coloring 
or finishing in sepia, black and white, etc. 

How to Sensitize Photographic Print- 
ing Papers. — I . — The older form of 
paper is one in which the chemicals are 
held by albumen. Silver is said to com- 
bine with this, forming an albuminate. 
Pictures printed on this would be too 
sharp in their contrasts, and conse- 
quently "hard"; this is avoided by intro- 
ducing silver chloride. 

To prepare this form of paper, beat 15 
ounces of fresh egg albumen with 5 
ounces of distilled water, dissolye in it 
300 grains of ammonium chloride, set 
aside for a time, and decant or filter. 
Suitable paper is coated with this solu- 
tion by floating, and then dried. The 
paper is "sensitized" by floating it on 
a solution of silver nitrate in distilled 
water, about 80 grains to the ounce, with 
a drop of acetic acid. The paper is 
dried as before, and is then ready for 
printing. The sensitizing must, of 
course, be done in the dark room. 

The reaction between the ammonium 
chloride present in the albumen coating 
produces a certain quantity of silver chlo- 
ride, the purpose of which is shown above. 
Of course, variations in the proportions 
of this ingredient will give different de- 
grees of softness to the picture. 

II, — The bromide and chloride papers 
which are now popular consist of the or- 
dinary photographic paper sensitized by 
means of a thin coating of bromide or 
chloride emulsion. In "Photographic 
Printing Methods," by the Rev. W. H. 
Burbank, the following method is given 
for bromide paper: 

A. — Gelatin (soft) 42£ grains 

Bromide of potassium 26 grains 
Distilled water 1 ounce 

B. — Nitrate of silver 33 J grains 

Distilled water 1 ounce 



Dissolve the bromide first, then add 
the gelatin and dissolve by gentle heat 
(95° to 100° P.), Bring tbl silver so- 
lution to the same temperature, and add 
in a small stream to the gelatin solution, 
stirring vigorously, of course in non-ac- 
tinic light. Keep the mixed emulsion at 
a temperature of 105° P, for half an hour, 
or according to the degree of sensitive- 
ness required, previously adding 1 drop 
of nitric acid to every 5 ounces of the 
emulsion. Allow it to set, squeeze 
through working canvas, and wash 8 
hours in running water. In his own 
practice he manages the washing easily 
enough by breaking the emulsion tip 
into an earthen jar filled with cold water, 
and placed in the dark room sink. A 
tall lamp chimney standing in the jar 
immediately under the tap conducts 
fresh water to the bottom of the jar, and 
keeps the finely divided emulsion in con 
stant motion; a piece of muslin, laid ove 
the top of the jar to prevent any of the 
emulsion running out, completes thi 
simple, inexpensive, but efficient wash 
ing apparatus. 

Kcxt melt the emulsion and add one 
tenth of the whole volume of glycerine 
and alcohol; the first to prevent trouble 
some cockling of the paper as it dries, th 
second to prevent air bubbles and haste 
drying. Then filter. 

With the emulsion the paper may b 
coated just as it comes from the stoc 
dealer, plain, or, better still, given 
substratum of insoluble gelatin, made a 
follows: 

Gelatin Ingrains 

Water 1 ounce 

Dissolve and filter; then add 11 drop 
of a 1 in 50 filtered chrome alum solution 
The paper is to be floated for halt ? 
minute on this solution, avoiding a 
bubbles, and then hung up to dry m 
room free from dust. The purpose o 
this substratum is to secure addition 
br liancy in the finished prints by keep 
in* the emulsion isolated from the an 
face of the paper, The paper shoul 
nnw be cut to the size desired. 
n °We do n 0 t know of these processe 
having been appKed to postal cards, bu 
^w<, there is some substance in th 
S ng of the card which, would interfere 
rifere is no reason why it should not b 
Of course, however, a novice will not ge 
the results by using it that an experience 
hand would. 

Ferro-Prussiate Paper.— The follow 
ir,; Sine process of preparing sensitiv 
naler s employed by the Prussian an 
SSsian railway administrations. Th 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



^r'h'nded d fifty part, by 
+ of Dowdered potassium bichro- 
we ,gLt, of powj? * the so i u tion 
mate are dissolved in wai ^ , g 

should be ^ftte J'JS* 10 parts 
H T^Tmi) and Mparts of p'hos- 
°l a >°i?.V are added successively, and 

tion is sP on /K°ave £1 Sn absolutely 

iftL S P^ r inthe CU s r : m -e pl^aTef 
a Lt l^^fnutes after which the tracing 
L reproduced and the paper are 
Placed inTframe, as usual, and exposed 
to daylight. On a sunny day, an ex 
posure of 35 seconds is enough; m 
cloudy weather, 60 to 70 seconds; on a 
very dark day. as much as 5 minutes. 

After exposure, the paper is hxed by 
suspending it for 20 minutes upon a bar 
in a closed wooden box, on the bottom 
of which are kid some sheets of blotting 
paper, sprinkled with 40 drops of ben- 
zine and 20 of crude aniline oil. The 
vapors given off will develop the design. 
Several impressions may be taken at the 
same time. 

For fixing, crude aniline oil is to be 
used (anilinum purum), not refined 
(purissimum), for the reason that the 
former alone contains the substances 
necessary for the operation. The re- 
produced design is placed in water for a 
few minutes, and hung up to dry. 

Pigment Paper for Immediate Use. — 
Pigment paper is usually sensitized in 
the bichromate solution on the evening 
before it h desired for use. If it is not 
then used it will spoil. By proceeding 
as follows the paper may be used within 
fn r¥ r u° f atl h , our after treating it 
tLn Jf 6 bath - Makc a solu - 

Ammonium bi- 

Sodium carbonate if Jffi™ 8 

ounce^cohT" °S with 0.7 

apply to s ^fi' an i ,7 th * broad b ™sh 
» ^Sy « p^ f bl * hc R^nt paper, 
as quickly a, Z ■ n • ry thlS P a P cr 

^«allylon R enoul f ?i minutes being 
may ti ett £ f ° r the Purpose. It 



mayth bcused B aton 



Sodium chloride. 

Arrowroot 

Acetic acid 

Distilled water 



4 Parts 
* Parts 

part * 
AU0 parts 



Dissolve the arrowroot m the wato 
inning gently, then add the remJS 1 



ingredients. Dissolve 4 parts of t^ U 
in 100 parts of distilled water and mi? 
solutions. _ Let the silk remain i n {{* 



"» *** immersed 



111 



in 

soi i"'"'"- - iciuiiin in 

bath for S minutes, then hang i t „ ne 
fully on a cord stretched a?r 08s ^ 
room to dry. The sensitizing mbct J£ 
is as follows: ure 

Silver nitrate. ...... . 90 parts 

Distilled water 750, parts 

Nitric acid 1 part 

Dissolve. On the surface of this so 
lution the silk is to be floated for 1 
minute, then hung up till superficially 
dry, then pinned out carefully 011 a flat 
board until completely dry. This m Us t 
of course, be done in the dark room! 
Print, wash, and tone in the usual man- 
ner. 

TONING BATHS FOR PAPER. 

The chief complaints made against 
separate baths are (1) the possibility 
of double tones, and (2) that the prints 
sometimes turn yellow- and remain so, 
Such obstacles may easily be removed by 
exercising a little care. Double tones 
may be prevented by soaking the prints 
in a 10 per cent solution of common salt 
before the preliminary washing, and by 
not touching the films with the fingers; 
and the second objection could not be 
raised provided fresh solution were used, 
with no excess of sulphocyanide, if this 
be the bath adopted. 

A very satisfactory solution may he 
made as follows: 

Sodium phosphate. . . 20 grains 

Gold chloride 1 & g™ ms 

Distilled (or boiled) 

water 10 ounces 

This tones very quickly and even ]^ 
and the print will be, when fixed, exaCt ^ 
the color it is when removed from tn 
bath. Good chocolate tints may W 
obtained, turning to purple gray 011 P r 
longed immersion. , 

Next to this, as regards ease or m 
nipulation, the tungstate bath 
placed, the following being a g ood 
mula: 

Sodium tungstate. ... ^0 grains 

Gold chloride 2 grams 

Water 32 ° U mje 

. The prints should be toned a 1 
further than required, as they c £» 
color, though only slightly, i» ihe nir 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



541 



Provided that ordinary care be ex- 
• J the sulphocyanide bath cannot 
< T T& iinPro^d upon. The formulas 
* eU IwTe various makers for their 
Active papers are all satisfactory, 
fnfdX very little. One that always 
acts well is 

Amnion in in sulpho- 

cyanide f« S rains 

Distilled water 16 ounces 

Gold chloride 2 J grains 

For those who care to try the various 
baths, and to compare their results here 
is a table showing the quantities of dif- 
ferent agents that may be used with 
sufficient water to make up 10 ounces: 



Gold chlo- 
ride, 1 gr- 
to 1 oz. 
water.. . ■ 

Borax .... 

Sod. bicar- 
bonate.. . 

Sod, car- 
bonate . - 

Sod. phos- 
phate... . 

Sod. tung- 
state 

Amm. sul- 
pho cya- 
nide 



12 dr, 
COgr. 



16 dr. 



10 gr. 



iSdr, 



20 gr. 



11 dr. 



20 gr, 



11 dr. 



40 gr 



14 dr. 



17.5 gr. 



it up to the light and looking through it. 
A short immersion gives various reds, 
while prolonged toning gives soft grays. 

Results very similar to platinotype 
may be obtained with the following 
combined gold and platinum bath: 

A. — Sodium, acetate 1 drachm 

Water 4 ounces 

Gold chloride 1 grain 

B. — Chloro-platinite of po- 

tassium 1 grain 

Water 4 ounces 

Mix A and B and neutralize with nitric 
acid. (The solution will he neutral 
when it just ceases to turn red litmus 
paper blue.) 

Another toning agent is stannous 
chloride. Two or three grains of tin foil 
arc dissolved in strong hydrochloric acid 
with the aid of heat. The whole is then 
made up to about 4 ounces with water. 

Toning Baths for Silver Bromide 
Paper. — The picture, which has been 
exposed at a distance of 1$ feet for about 
8 to 10 seconds, is developed in the cus 
tomary manner and fixed in an aci 
fixing bath composed of 
Distilled water.. 1,000 cubic centimete 



We may take it that any of these sub- 
stances reduce gold trichloride, AuCl 3 to 
AuCl; this AuCl apparently acts as an 
electrolyte, from which gold is deposited 
on the silver of the image, and at the 
same time a small quantity of silver 
combines with the chlorine of the gold 
chloride thus: 

AuCl + Ag = AgCl + Au 

When toning has been completed, the 
prints are washed and placed in the fix- 
ing bath, when the sodium thiosulphate 
present dissolves any silver chloride that 
has not been affected by light. 

Besides the well-known, every-day 
tones we see, which never outstep the 
narrow range between chocolate brown 
and purple, a practically infinite variety 
of color, from chalk red to black, may be 
obtained by a little careful study of ton- 
ing baths instead of regarding them as 
mere unalterable machines. Most charm- 
ing tints are produced with platinum 
baths, a good formula being 

Strong nitric acid .... 5 drops 

Water 4 ounces 

Chloro-platinite of po- 
tassium 1 grain 

The final tone of a print cannot be 
judged from its appearance in the bath, 
but some idea of it may be got by holding 



Hyposulphite of 
soda. ....... 

Sodium sulphite 
Sulphuric acid.. 
First dissolve 



100 grams 
20 grams 
4 to 5 grams 

i- ,rsT. ui.s.Mjiu-; the sodium sulphite, 
then add the sulphuric acid, and finally 
the hyposulphite, and dissolve. m 

Blue tints are obtained by laying th 
picture in a bath composed as follows: 

A. — Uranium ni- 

trate - 2 grams 
-yy ater 200 cubic centimeters 

B. — Red p r u s - 

siate of 

Yiltex &h .'.'.'. »00cufcS 9 centim€tew 

n — A m m o n i a- 

iron-alum 10 grams 
Water . ■ 100 cubic centimeters 
Pure hydro- 

ald. 0 r i .° 15 cubic centimeters 
Immediately before the toning mix 
Solution A- 200 cubic centimeter 

20 cubic centimeter 
200 cubic centimeter 
SO to 40 cubic cen - 
meters 

tints. Use the following s 



Glacial ace- 
tic acid. . . 
Solutionis . 
Solution C . . 



Brown 
lutions: 



PHOTOGRA3 



9 grams 

0 cubic centimeters 



X— Uranium ni- s 

' i 000 cubic centimeters 

Water.. . ■ ■ • 

B.—Red prus- 
siate ot 

Andm ix i T d^~ eters 
Iffinl": 100 cubic centimeters 
^acid' e : 10 cubic centimeters 
Ketu s toned in thi, bath are then 
kid iulo the following solution. 

Iald ^ tes 1,500 cubic centimeters 

Faze hydro- 

acW.°. r . i . C 5 cubic centimeters 
Citric acid.. 20 grama 
To Turn Blueprints Brown.— A piece 
of caustfc soda about the ^ * b f h * 
is dissolved in 5 ounces ^ ™ l ^Xdi it 
blueprint immersed m it, on which it 
will take on an orange-yellow cotor. 
When the blue has entirely left the print 
it should be washed thoroughly and im- 
mersed in a bath composed of 8 ounces 
of water in which has been dissolved a 
heaping leaspoonFul of tannic acid. The 
prints'm this bath will assume a brown 
color that may be carried to almost any 
tone, after which they must again be 
thoroughly washed and allowed to dry. 

COMBINED TONING AND FIXING 
BATHS. 

The combined toning and fixing 
bath consists essentially of five pails — 
(1) water, the solvent; (2) a soluble 
salt oF gold, such as gold chloride; (3) 
tbe fixing agent, sodium thiosulphale; 
(4) a compound which will readily com- 
bine with "nascent" sulphur— i. e., sul- 
phur as it is liberated— this is usually a 
soluble lead salt, such as the arc tote or 
m rate, and (5) an auxiliary, such as a 
sulp ho cyanide. 

twn >e i^P'xf- 1 baUl ^ as recommended 
byDc. John Nicol, and is as follows: 

thiosulphate. 3 ounces 

D,sh led water 16 ounces 

Wben dissolved, add 

DBblled water... 4 fluidrachms 
Vogel? whte' n'° ntai r lea . d is dll <^ ^ 



sulpho- 
„ cyanide. , 1 
Lead acetate ". a l £L n . ce 

1 ounce 



Gold chloride H ^ 

Distilled water 35 fluidoun Cfe 

A bath which contains no lead i s 
which has produced excellent te °u e 
and is due to the experimental researl 
of Dr. Liesegang. It is as follows: ^ 
Ammonium sul- 

phocyanide . . .. J ounce 
Sodium chloride . . 1 ounce 

Alum ...... £ ounce 

Sodium thio sul- 
phate 4 ounces 

Distilled water. . . 24 fluidounces 
Allow this solution to stand for u 
hours, during which time the precipe 
tated sulphur sinks to the bottom 0 f ft^ 
vessel; decant or filter, and add 

Gold chloride. ... 8 grains 
Distilled water. . . 1 fluidomice 
It is curious that, with the two baths 
last described, the addition to them of 
some old, exhausted solution makes them 
work all the better. 

ENLARGEMENTS. 

Times of Enlargement and Reduction 



WIS 
6 



15 


20 






16J 


22 


si 




18 


24 


9 


8 


21 


28 


10 J 




24 


32 


12 


10? 


27 


36 



134 



12 



00; 
5 1 



25 



27* 



30 
17 1 



35 



40 
10 



45 

m 



as 


as 
0 


CJ 

"0 


M 
0 




.2 






12 

n 


14 

n 


15 
3 


171 


18 

32 


21 

si 


2T 
H 




24 

n 


2S 

_M_ 


27 
51 


3J \ 
1 1 


30 
6 


35 
5§ 


33~ 
6| 


38 A 


3G 


42 
7 


42 
81 


~49^ 

8J 


48 


66 


54 
10£ 


63 
10t 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



543 



rrk 0 nbiect of this table is to enable I 
? m ,mpulator who is about to enlarge 
any & f m K copy a ny given number of 
^ rC to do o Sout froublesonm cal, 
tpnes to uo assume d that the pho- 
culatioa. « 1 tJ hat the focus 

IS'l S3 that bJ is able to meas- 
of ^irately from its optical center, 
frt'use of the table will be seen from 
S following illustration: A photogra- 
pher E 5r** to en,ar e e to i our ti p es 

Fts si ? e and the lens he intends employ- 
■L one of 6 inches equivalent focus. 
o g L?Z therefore look for 4 on the 
SpeThoriSnSl line and for 6 in the first 
Sea column, and carry his eye to 
where these two join which wdl be at 
^ 71 The greater of these is the dw* 
fance the se/sitive plate must be from 
he center of the lens; and the lesser, the 
distance of the picture to be copied. To 
Suce a picture any given number of 
times, the same method must be fol- 
lowed- but in this case the greater num- 
ber will represent the distance between 
the lens and the picture to be copied, the 
latter that between the lens and the 
sensitive plate. This explanation wd 
be sufficient for every case of enlargement 
or reduction. , 

If the focus of the lens be IS inches, as 
this number is not in the column of focal 
lengths, look out for 6 in this column and 
multiply by 2, and so on with any other 
numbers. „ 

To make a good enlargement nve 
points should be kept constantly in view, 
viz.: , , 

L Most careful treatment of the orig- 
inal negative. 

2. Making a diapositive complete m 
all its parts. . , 

3. Scrupulous consideration of the 
size of the enlargement. 

4. Correct exposure during the proc- 
ess of enlargement. 

5. The most minute attention to the 
details of development, including the 
chemical treatment of the enlarged neg- 
ative. 

The original negative should not be 
too dense, nor, on the contrary, should it 
be too thin. If necessary, it should be 
washed off, or strengthened, as the case 
may be. Too strong a negative is usu- 
ally weakened with ammonium _ per- 
sulphate, or the fixing hypo solution 1 

nnU n i"K ' L All Tscsirito p\ 



quite sufficient. All spots, points, etc., 
should be retouched with the pencil and 
carmine. 

The diapositive should be produced by 
contact in the copying apparatus. A 
border of black paper should be used to 
Prevent the entry of light from the side. 



The correct period of exposure de- 
pends upon the thickness of the negative, 
the source of the light, its distance, etc. 
Here there is no rule, experience alone 
must teach. 

JFor developing one should use not too 
strong a developer. The mctol-soda 
developer is well suited to this work, as 
it gives especially soft lights and half 
tones. Avoid too short a- development. 
When the finger laid behind the thickest 
spot, and held toward the light, can no 
longer be detected, the negative is dense 
enough. 

The denser negatives should be ex- 
posed longer, and the development 
should be quick, while with thin, light 
negatives the reverse is true; the ex- 
posure should be briefer and the de- 
velopment long, using a strong developer, 
and if necessary with an addition of po- 
tassium bromide. 

The silver chloro-bromide diapositive 
plates, found in the shops, are totally 
unsuitcd for enlargements, as they give 
overdone, hard pictures. , 

To produce good artistic results in 
enlarging, the diapositive should be kep' 
soft, even somewhat too thin. It should 
undergo; also, a thorough retouching. 
All improvements are easily earned out 
on the smaller positive or negative pic- 
tures. Later on, .after the same have 
been enlarged, corrections are muc 
more difficult and troublesome. 

VARNISHES: 
Cold Varnish. — 

! —Pyroxylin 10 grains 

Amyl alcohol } ounce 

Amyl acetate 1 ° unce 

Allow to stand, shaking frequently tj 
dissolved. Label: The negative shoul 
be thoroughly dried before this solutio 
is appl Sdf wJich may be done , ei her b 

^tm^lacelor at least IS hours t 
thoroughly dry. 

ll. Japanese gold size . . 1 Equal part 

Benzol J . , 

t k.i. Tn loolving this varnish gre 

Venzo ..... ' be .j 

brush care being taken not t 
use it near a light or open are. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



unce 
ounce 
minims 



Dead Black Varnish.— 

S or « x ;" . 60 grains 
Shellac- Q m j n j ms 

glycerine ™ 

Boil till dissolved, filter, and add ani- 

Iin £a b b a el k ' AppT'ne solution with a 
brulttd repeat" when dry if necessary- 

Ordinary Negative Varnish,— 

Gumsandarac 1 ° 

Orange shellac 4 

Castor oil. ... • y " - «. 

Methyl alcohol... 1 P" 1 * 

Allow to stand with occasional agita- 
tion till dissolved, and then filter. Label: 
The negative should be heated before a 
fire till it can be comfortably borne on the 
back of the hand, and then the varnish 
flowed over, any excess being drained 
off, and the negative should then be 
again placed near the fire to dry. _ 

Water Varnish.— It is not only in con- 
nection with its application to a wet col- 
lodion film that water varnish forms a 
valuable addition to the stock of chem- 
icals in all-round photography; it is 
almost invaluable in the case of gelatin 
as with wet collodion films. In the case 
of gelatin negatives the water varnish is 
applied in the shape of a wash directly 
after the negatives have been washed to 
free their films from all traces of hypo, 
or In other words, at that stage when the 
usual drying operation would begin. 
After the varnish has been applied the 
films are dried in the usual manner, and 
*i? a I?P lica ^ on s °on convince anyone 
that has experienced the difficulty of re- 
touching by reason of the want of a tooth 
in the film to make a lead-pencil bite as 
the saying goes, that were this the only 
benefit accruing from its application it 
W ° rthy of bein « employed. 

loe use of water varnish, however 
does away with the necessity of m! 

fe g to 0ll ° di0n ^ an ^itional pro- 
tection to a negattve, and is, perhans 

fcnTs Itr? -^ dy , Wrt P d"S^ 
worker. tam - ng , that experienced 

workers are acquainted with. As a var- 

Btl\!f = n0t costl >\ "either is it difficult 



5&fffe a a n«r°*- abl 7 Smali q^antitii 



J Which insert 4 ounces of 
d place the vessel 
until the water is 



MSSflt* insert 4^ 
m a are o gasIS; ^ Pi*? the ve ^l 
»Ufcd to 21f V w u Untjl , tbe water is 
tiir» ;„ When th «. 




from its mount, and put it in a solution of 
the following composition: 

By weight 

Hydrochloric acid g parts 

Sodium chloride S parts 

Potassium bichromate S parts 

Distilled water 250 parts 

The fluid bleaches the picture, but 
photographs that have been toned 
gold do not quite vanish. Rinse « 
plenty of water, and develop again 
very dilute alkaline developer. 

MOUNT ANTS ; 

See also Adhesives. . ^ 

I — If buckling of the mount js t( > ft 
cured, the prints must be mountea - 
dry state, and the film of raountant w w 
by the print must be just sufliciei ^ 
attach it firmly to the mount aI ^ b0 J 
more. The great virtue of the 



urated solution of borax is dropr» ec i • 
the boiling pan containing the slJn 10 
and water, taking care to stir vi R or Q , i 
with a long strip of glass until the swii J 
is all dissolved Too much borax shcmlS 
not be added only just sufficient T 
cause the shellac to dissolve, and it ■ 
better to stop short, if anything Def 13 
all the flakes dissolve out than to add 
much borax. The solution is then fil° 
tered carefully and, when cold, the wafK 
varnish is ready for use. r 

FADED PHOTOGRAPHS AND THPTu 
TREATMENT: 

Restoring Faded Photographs. 1 _ 

As a precaution against a disaster first 
copy the old print in the same size 
Soak the faded photograph for several 
hours in clean water and, after separating 
print from mount, immerse the former ha 
nitric acid, highly dilute (1 per cent), f op 
a few minutes. Then the print is kept 
in a mercury intensifier (mercuric chlo- 
ride, ^ ounce; common salt, § ounce; hot 
water, 16 ounces, used cold), until 
bleached as much as possible. After 
half an hour's rinsing, a very weak am- 
monia solution will restore the photo- 
graph, with increased vigor, the upper 
tones being much improved, though the 
shadows will show some tendency to 
clog. The net result will be a decided 
improvement in appearance; but, at this 
stage, any similarly restored photo- 
graphs should be recopied if their im- 
portance warrants it, as mercury inten- 
sifier results are not permanent. It may 
be suggested that merely rephotograph- 
ing and printing in platinotype will 
probably answer. 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



545 



t « described consists of the mar- 
tc f* sly thin film of tenacious mountant 
7 T T to the print in its dry condition, 
a P P - l-o(re bv this means being entirely 
fetef A drawing board Ah a per- 
f ° e b c ; y l mooit, surface and of fair dirnen- 
• y cn ivorv or bone burnisher at- 
a short handle, with some 



sions. 
tached 



to 



,-. crlnp are the principal requi- 
S c m s m °Ta g ke, e say, a quarter of a pound of 
the filue broken into small pieces and 
rover it with water in a clean gallipot 
large enough to allow for the subsequent 
Sing of the glue. Place on one side 
5fl tie glue lias become thoroughly 
^rmeated by the water, then pour off 
£ excess and dissolve the glue in the 
water it has absorbed by placing the 
Jampot in a vessel of hot water. The 
Solution tested with a piece of blue lit- 
mus paper will show a distinctly acid 
reaction which must be carefully neu- 
tralized by adding some solution of car- 
bonate of soda. The amount of water 
absorbed by the glue will probably be 
too little to give it the best working con- 
sistency, and, if this is the case, sufficient 
should be added to make it about the 
thickness of ordinary molasses. Care- 
ful nitration through a cambric hand- 
kerchief, and the addition of about 10 
grains of thymol, completes the prepara- 
tion of the mounting solution. As glue 
deteriorates by frequent and prolonged 
heating, it is preferable to make up a 
stock solution, from which sufficient for 
the work in hand can be taken in the 
form of jelly, melted, and used up at once. 

T!s* finished prints, dried and trimmed 
to the required size, are placed on 
the boards they are to occupy when 
mounted, and, as it is impossible to_ re- 
move a print for readjustment once it is 
laid down for final mounting, the wisest 
course is to indicate by taint pencil 
marks on the mount the exact position 
the print is to occupy; then it may be 
laid down accurately and without any 
indecision. A small gas or oil stove is 
required on the mounting table to keep 
the glue liquid, but maintaining the solu- 
tion in a constant state of ebullition 
throughout the operation is unnecessary 
and harmful to the glue; the flame 
should he regulated so that the mountant 
is kept just at the melting point. Place 
the drawing board beside the gas stove 
and with a house-painter's brush of 
good quality and size spread the glue 
oyer an area considerably exceeding the 
dimensions of the print to be mounted, 
k thin coating of glue evenly applied to 
the board is the end to aim at, to accom- 
plish 'which the brush should be worked 



m horizontal strokes, crossing these with 
others at right angles. Have at hand a 
small pile ot paper cut into pieces some- 
what larger than the print to be mounted 
(old newspaper answers admirably for 
these pieces), lay one down on the glued 
patch and press it well into contact by 
passing the elosed hand across it in aft 
directions. Raise one corner of the 
paper, and slowly but firmly strip it 
from the board. Repeat the operations 
of gluingthe board (in the same place) 
and stripping the newspaper 2 or S 
times, when a beautifully even cushion 
of glue will remain on the board. 

Mounting the prints is the next step. 
The cushion of glue obtained on the 
board has to be coated with glue for, 
say, every second print, but the amount 
applied must be as small as possible. 
After applying the glue the print is laid 
down upon it, a square of the waste 
newspaper laid over the print, which 
has then to be rubbed well into contact 
with the glue. Raise a corner of the 
print with the point of a penknife ant 
strip it from the board, as m the case of 
the newspaper. Care must be taken 
when handling the print in its glued con- 
dition to keep the fingers well beyond 
the edges of the print, in order that no 
glue may be abstracted from the edges. 
Lay the print quickly down upon it" 
mount; with a cle?n, soft linen duste 
smooth it everywhere into contact, place 
upon it a square of photographic drying 
board, and with the bone burnisher g< 
over it in all directions, using consider- 
The finished result is 



able pressure. 

mounted print that shows no signs of 
buckling, and which adheres to the 
mount with perfect tenacity. 

II.— Gelatin \ P ar ^ 

Water 4 P arts 

5eohol.:. 8 parts 

The alcohol is added slowly as soon 
^t«t\t\\a. is well dissolved inthewatei 
Weasel turned -—^he 

bottles. 

TRANSPARENT PHOTOGRAPHS: 

T The following mixture may be 
I T~ j t- i7fi<> F to render photo- 
employed at liO x ., f 4 rts 
graphs transparent 1 eon ^ 



546 

? o. u . rth . °\u ?„w ht ore dissol ving. The 

ghtest 

uici^i,, " j 

defects are visible afterwards. 

ounce of Canada bal- 
Plain paper requires a mu^ 
rter time. When the print s tiiov- 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



»ddedtotne^ photographs 
Cte P«fS beLuse &. sHgbtes, 



print overnight m a 
of castor oil and 1 o 
sam. Plain 
shorter time 

, anriaylt'o^the glass face down 
lard and squeeze till all is driven out 
Jnd The print'adheres. If ^^ttf 
is used, prepare a squeegee with edge par- 
allel with the curvature of the glass. It 
will take several hours before the print is 
dry enough to apply color to it, 
THE GUM - BICHROMATE PHOTO- 
PRINTING PROCESS. 
Gum bichromate is not a universal 
printing method. It is not suited for 
all subjects or for all negatives, but 
where there is simplicity ana breadth in 
sizes of 8£ x 6^ and upward, direct or 
enlarged prints by it have a charm al- 
together their own, and afford an oppor- 
tunity for individuality greater than any 
other method. 

While almost any kind of paper will 
do, there are certain qualities that the 
beginner at least should endeavor to 
secure. It should be tough enough to 
stand the necessary handling, which is 
considerably more than in either the 
pnnting-out or developing methods. It 
must not be so hard or smooth as to make 
coating difficult, nor so porous as to ab- 
sorb or let the coating sink in too much- 
but a few trials will show just what sur- 
face is best. Till that experience is ac- 
quired it may be said that most of What- 
man s or Michallet; 8 drawing papers, to 
be had at any artist's materials store, will 
be found all that can be desired- or 

C ood g n theSe '* e 5] ?™Z of almost any 
good paper will make ft almost as suil 

U^etlrv 8 '^^^/ 0 ^ 1011 of ^^tin 
better half ,? n P ° yed ' but a "owroot i S 
? l ett , er ' , h . a l f an ounce to a pint of water 



It should be beat 
lilti 



! n i 1 i tlto a crea -m with a 
dded, and 
old it may 



Wtle of the water, the r : st \ 
fought to the boil. When c 

be apphed with a spon J or tuft of ™ + 7~' 
going several ti 1 fi S e or tutt of cotton, 

and then in the oth ° - directlOQ 

mtle future trouble 
uon-sized side. 



and ^en m fee otherTaVdT.. 

to pencil mark the 



saves a 



The quality of the gum is of l esg ■ 
portanee than is generally supposed , 
long as it is the genuine gum arabi c -Jj 
in round, clean tears. To make VI 
solution select an 8-ounce, wide-moutUj 



bottle, of the tall rather than the S q Uat 
variety, and place in it 6 ounces of water 
Two ounces of the gum are then ' 
loosely in a piece of thin -muslin and st 
pended in the bottle so as to be about 



two-thirds covered by the water 




Solu- 



tion begins at once, as may be seen by 
the heavier liquid descending, and if 
kept at the ordinary temperature of the 
room may not be complete for 24 or even 
48 hours; but the keeping qualities of the 
solution will be greater than if the time 
had been shortened by heat. When all 
that will has been dissolved, there will 
still be a quantity of gelatinous matter i n 
the muslin, but on no account must it be 
squeezed out, as the semi-soluble matter 
thus added to the solution would be in- 
jurious. With the addition of a few 
drops of carbolic acid and a good cork 
the gum solution will keep for months. 

The selection of the pigments is not 
such a serious matter as some of the 
writers would lead us to believe. Tube 
water colors are convenient and save the 
trouble of grinding, but the cheap colors 
in powder take a better grip and give 
richer images. The best prints are made 
with mixtures of common lampblack, 
red ocher, sienna, umber, and Vandyke 
brown, the only objection to their em- 
ployment being the necessity of rather 
carefully grinding. This may be done 
with a stiffish spatula and a sheet of 
finely ground glass, the powder ^ixed 
with a little gum solution and rubbed 
with the spatula till smooth, but better 
still is a glass paper weight in the shape 
of a cone with a base of about. H inches 
in diameter, bought in the stationer s lor 
25 cents. 

The sensitizer is a 10 per cent solution 
of potassium bichromate, and ^batey^ 



be the pigment or whatever the metho 
of preparing the coating, it may I 
to keen in mind that the right ^< 

IJjtll Oi 



strength 

or proportion, or at least a strengt 



coating that answers very well, is equa 
parts of that and the gum solution. 

In preparing the coating measure ^ 
gum solution in a cup from a toy tea 
that holds exactly 1 ounce, it bem £ e ® n ; c - 
to get it all out of this than out ot a coi 
al graduate. From SO to 30 S ril "L.j s 
the color or mixture of colors in P 0 ^ *o • 
placed on the slab — the ground su 
of an "opal" answers well— and eiiou^ 
of the gum added to moisten it, ana « 
the paper weight "muller," aided DJ 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



547 



eD atula, as long as ayiy grittiness remains, 
Sill it is perfectly smooth, adding more 
more gum till it is like a thick cream. 
i?U then transferred to a squat teacup 
nd 1 ounce of the bichromate solution 
iridually added, working it in with one 
5 ' the brushes to perfect homogeneity. 
Of course, it will be understood that this 
mixture should be used all at once or 
™3her only as much as is to be used at 
once Should be made, as notwithstanding 
what has been said to the contrary, it .Will 
-not keep. After each operation, both or 
11 of the brushes should be thoroughly 
cleaned before putting them away. 

Not the least important are the 
brushes; one about % inches wide and 
soft for laying on the coating the other 
unless for small work, twice that breadth 
and of what is known as "badger" or a 
good imitation thereof, for softening. 
The paper can be bought in sheets of 
about 17 x m inches. Cut these in two, 
coating pieces of about 17 x 11. Xhe 
sheet is fastened to a drawing board by 
drawing pins, one at each corner. 1 he 
coating brush— of camel's hair, but it is 
said that hog's is better— is filled with 
the creamy mixture, which has been 
transferred to a saucer as more con- 
venient, and with even strokes, first one 
way and then the other, drawn all over 
the paper. It is easier to do than to de- 
scribe, but all three joints, wrist, elbow, 
and shoulder take part, and unless the 
surface of the paper is too smooth, there 
is really no difficulty to speak of. 

By the time the whole surface has been 
covered the paper will have expanded to 
an extent that makes it necessary to re- 
move three of the pins and tighten it, and 
then comes the most important and the 
only really difficult part of the work, the 
softening. The softener is held exactly 
as one holds the pen in writing, and the 
motion confined altogether to the wrist, 
bringing only the points of the hair in 
contact with the coating, more like stip- 
pling than painting. 

If much cf the coating has been laid 
on, and too much is less of an evil than 
too little, the softener will p soon have 
taken up so much as to require washing. 
This is done at the tap, drying on a soft 
cloth, and repeat the operation, the 
strokes or touches gradually becoming 
hghter and lighter, till the surface is as 
smooth and free from markings as if it 
had been floated. 

Just how thick the coating should be is 
most easily learned by experience, but as, 
unlike ordinary carbon, development 
begins from the exposed surface, it must 
he as deep; that is, as dark on the paper 



as the deepest shadow on the intended 
print, and it should not be deeper. 

While it is true that the bichromate 
colloid is not sensitive while wet, the 
coating is best done in subdued light, 
indeed, generally at night. Hang the 
sheets to dry in the dark room. 

Exposure should be made with some 
form of actino-meter. 

Development may be conducted in 
various ways, and is modified according 
to the extent of the exposure. Float the 
exposed sheet on water at the ordinary 
temperature from the tap. The expo- 
sure should admit of complete, or nearly 
complete, development in that position 
in from 5 to 10 minutes; although it 
should not generally be allowed to go so 
far. By turning up a corner from time 
to time'one may see how it goes, and at 
the suitable stage depending on what one 
really wants to do, the otherwise plain 
outcome of the negative is modified, 
gently withdrawn from the water, and 
pinned up to dry. 

The modifying operation may be done 
at once, where the exposure has been 
long enough to admit it, but generally, 
and especially when it has been such as 
to admit of the best result, the image is 
too soft, too easily washed off to make it 
safe. But after having been dried and 
again moistened by immersion in water, 
the desired modification may be mad 
with safety. . 

The moistened print is now placed on 
a sheet of glass, the lower end of whic 
rests on the bottom of the developin 
tray, and supported by the left hand at 
suitable angle; or, better still, in som 
other way so as to leave both hands free 
In this position, and with water at va 
rious temperatures, camel's-hair brushe 
of various sizes, and a rubber syringe, i 
is possible to do practically anything. 

TABLES AND SCALES: 

Comparative Exposures of Vano 
Subjects. — Secon 
Open panorama, with fields and 

trees .. * • ■» * * • * % * * ' ' ' ' * * 

Snow, ice, marine views. . 

panorama, with houses, etc • 

(diffused light) 

Underneath open trees J 

Groups under cover j 

Beneath dense trees 1 

Ravines, excavations . 

Portraits in light interior, . . ^ 
Portraits taken 4 feet from a win 

dowl indoors, diffused light 3 



546 

By Henry L. Tolman 
From the Photographic Times 
Lens 6-inch Equivalent Focus, Ground 
ljCn Glass at Principal Focus 
of Lens 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



Miles 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

€ 

7 

S 

9 
10 
11 

u 

13 
14 
15 
20 
25 
80 
35 
40 



Feet 


Distance on 
Ground Glass, 

Object 30 Feet 
away. 


Same 
with 
Object 
60 Feet 
away. 


Same 

writK Ob- 

ject 120 
Feet 
away. 


n 

3 

4§ 
6 


.29 


.15 


.073 


.59 


.29 


.147 


.88 
1.17 


.41 
.59 


.220 
.293 


7* 
9 


1.47 
1.76 


.73 , 
.88 


.367 
.440 


10} 
12 


2.05 


1.03 


.513 


2.35 


1.17 


.587 


13 


2.64 


1.32 


.660 


14* 


2.93 


1.47 


.733 


16 


3.23 


1.61 


.807 


174 


3.52 


1.76 


.880 


19 


3.81 


1.91 


.953 


20 1 


4.11 


2.05 


1.027 


22 


4.40 


2.20 


1.100 


29 


5.87 


2.93 


1.467 


37 


7.33 


3.67 


1.833 


44 


8.80 


4.40 


2.200 


51 


10.27 


5.13 


2.567 


59 


11.73 


5.97 


2.933 



W. D. Kilbey, in the American Annual 
of Photography, gives still another table 
for the exposure that should be given to 
objects in motion. 

According to his method the table is 
made out for a distance from the camera 
100 times that of the focus of the lens; 
that is for a 6-mch focus lens at 50 
feet, a 7-inch at 58 feet, an 8-inch at 67 
lOOfeet at 76 f£et " ° r a 12-inch at 

Toward At Eight 
the Angles to 
Man walking slowly ^ theCamera - 

street scenes. . . JL ™„ 

cattie graz ing.;;;;;; ±™ 

Boating . , jl «, 

Man W alkiug; ch ildren 

Playing etc , „ 

Poland trap, trot- * 

Cycling, ordinary!::; ifc « 

Man running a^ace ^ 

and jumping , „ 

VJ cl e racing. ' " ^ „ 

£f°™«. gal ,op ing .'.-.:: ± M 



:rV sec. 



If the object is twice the distance th 
length of allowable exposure is doubled 
and vice versa. » 

To Reduce Photographs.— When onp 
wishes to copy a drawing or photograph 
he is usually at a loss to know how hv?h 
the plate will be when any particular ball 
is selected. A plan which has the merit 
of being simple and reliable has been in 
use in engravers' offices for years. 

Here are the details: 




Reducing Scale for Copying Photographs. 

Turn the drawing face down and rule 
a diagonal line from the left bottom to 
the right top corner. Then measure 
from the left, on the bottom line, the 
width required. Ride a vertical line from 
that point until it meets the diagonal. 
Rule from that point to the left, and the 
resulting figure will have the exact pro- 
portions of the reduction. If the depth 
wanted is known, and the width is re- 
quired, the former should be measured 
on the left upright line, carried to the 
diagonal, an d thence to the lower hori- 
zon. The accompanying diagram ex- 
plains the matter simply. 

COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY: 

A Three-Color Process.— Prepare 7 
solutions, 4 of which are used for color 
screens, the remaining 3 serving as dyes 
for the plates. 

A. — Screen Solutions. — 
Blue violet. By ^eighf 

Methylene blue ; ... 5 parts 
Tetraethyldiamido- 
oxytriphenyl car- 
bmol 2P arts 

Or: By wel ght 

Methyl violet 5 parts 

Alcohol 200 parts 

Water, distilled.. . . 300 parts 

Green. By weigat 

Malachite green... 10 parts 

Alcohol ... 200 parts 

Water, distilled.. . . 300 parts 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



549 



Yellow. By weight 

Acridin yellow N. 

O ..... 10 parts 

Alcohol.'"'.' 200 parts 

Water, distilled.. 300 parts 

Red. By weight 

Congo rubin 10 parts 

Alcohol 200 par s 

Water, distilled.. .. 300 parts 

Dyes (Stock Solutions ).— 
3 By weight 

I — Acridin yellow or 
acridin orange, 

N. 0 1 P aTt 

Alcohol 100 parts 

Water, distilled.. . . 400 parts 
By weight 

IL— Congo rubin 1 P» r J 

Alcolol 100 parts 

Water, distilled.. . . 400 parts 
By weight 

jIJ. — Tetraethyldiamido- 
oxytriphenyl car- 

binol lp alt 

Alcohol 100 parts 

Water, distilled 400 parts 

The screen solutions, after being fil- 
tered through paper filters into clean 
dishes, are utilized to bathe 6 clean glass 
plates previously coated with 2 per cent 
raw collodion; we require 1 plate for blue 
violet, 2 plates for red, 2 plates for yel- 
low, and 1 plate for green, which in order 
to obtain the screens are combined m 
the following way; Yellow and red 
plate, yellow and green plate. For 
special purposes the other red plate may 
be combined with the blue violet. An- 
other method of preparing the screens 
is to add the saturated solutions drop by 
drop to a mixture of Canada balsam and 
2 per cent castor oil and cement the 
glasses together. Those who consider 
the screens by the first method too trans- 
parent, coat the glass plates with a mix- 
ture of 2 to 3 per cent raw collodion and 
1 per cent color solution. Others prefer 
gelatin screens, using 

By weight 

Hard gelatin (Nel- 
son's) 8 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Absolute alcohol. . . 10 parts 

Pigment 1 P^t 

This is poured over the carefully leveled 
and heated plate after having been fil- 
tered through flannel. , 
The collodion screens are cemented 
together by moistening the edges with 
Canada balsam (containing castor on) 
and pressing the plates together in a 



printing frame, sometimes also binding 
the edges with strips of Japanese paper. 

On the evening before the day of work, 
good dry plates of about 18° to 24° W. 
are dyed in the following solution: 

By weight 

Stock solution, No. 1 16 parts 

Distilled water 100 parts 

Alcohol 5 parts 

Nitrate of silver 

(1.500) 50 parts 

Ammonia 1-2 parts 

This bath sensitizes almost uninter- 
ruptedly to line A. The total sensi* 
tiveness is high, and the plate develops 
cleanly and fine. Blue sensitiveness is 
very much reduced, and the blue screen 
is used for exposure. As far as the 
author's recollection goes, the plate for 
the yellow color has never been color- 
sensitized, many operators using the 
commercial Vogel-Obernetter eosm sil- 
ver plates made by Perutz, of Munich; 
others again only use ordinary dry 
plates with a blue-violet _ screen. This 
is, however, a decided mistake, necessi- 
tating an immense amount of retouch 
ing, as otherwise it produces a gree 
shade on differently colored objects o 
the print. • 
For the red color plate the dry plat 

is dyed in . , 

By weight 

Stock solution, No. 2 10 parts 

Distilled water 100 parts 

Nitrate of silver 

(1.500) 100 parts 

Ammonia 2 P arts 

The resulting absorption band i 
closed until E, reaching from violet t 
red (over C). This red pigment wa 
examined by Eder, who gained ver 
good results, using ammonia in the som 

tl0 The corresponding screen is a com 
hinatmn of malachite green with aendm 
vcllow or acridin orange v- . 
y For the blue color plate the dye is 
made up as follows; ^ 

Ammonia 1 

^"^aLe screen i^e! herewith neces 
the orange scre ^ u ttie action seem 



550 

. i , mrI sa it), but the former is apt 
' ? in n oducc fogged plates. Methyl vio- 
L 0 t r C ^tal g v1olet has also been sug- 

ge FvDO S ures should be made in direct 
lShf ot with artificial pure white 
rght g (-etylene); electric l&t » too 

Va The most suitable methods of repro- 
duction^ half-tone, and the prototype 
Sods; also Turati's Isotypic _ ite 
gTeateV difficulty in a-eolor prm mj 
nowadays is presented by the want ot 
* Accurate printing. We must use the 
proper paper and pure fast colors; he 
fSg rollers should be smooth not too 
soft, and free from pores or weals. it- 
blocks must be firmly fixed typehigh 
otherwise they take color irregularly. A 
good printing machine is, of course, 
most essential. 

To supplement the above working 
directions: After having kept the plates 
for 3 or 3 minutes (constantly moving 
the dish) in the dyes, they are removed 
into a dish containing filtered alcohol, 
which extracts the superfluous pigment. 
Plates thus treated dry much more 
rapidly, develop cleaner, and show no 
fogging. 

Most of the above dyes may be ob- 
tained from the "Berliner Actienge- 
sellschaft fur Amlinfabrikation," the 
acridin only from the "Farbwerk Miihl- 
heim, a/Main, vorm. A. Leonhard & 
Company." 

Solution for Preparing Color Sensitive 
Plates. — H. Vollenbruch maintains that 
plates sensitized with erythrosin silver 
citrate are not only more sensitive to 
color impressions, but also have better 
keeping qualities than ordinary ery- 
throsin bathed plates. * 

r 3 ^° r > 1 depreSsion of J he over-active blue 
rays he recommends the addition of 
P eric acid to the coloring solution The 

monTa a ,nl d + - ryt ^ 0sia sSver am- 
monia solution ls prepared as follows: 

Solution I 

^itrate of potassa 1 gram 

Distilled water ln^t- 

waier . . 10 cubic centimeters 

Solution II 
Silver nitrate i 

Stilled wlter"- , f«? . 

Both ' ' ° Cublc ^ntimeters 

PweiStSS 7 0 n p S J " e ^d a white 

13 Poured off carefX S "P e ^?tant liquid 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



Finally a large bulk of water (2o C nK- 
centimeters) is added to the precinit^ 
and well shaken; 5 cubic centimeters* 
this is reserved, the remainder ig treat a 
to ammonia, drop by drop, until It 
precipitate is rcdissolved. Now add tl 
5 cubic centimeters of reserved solut, 
and shake the whole until every p art -? 
is dissolved. lhen make up the soli 
tion to 50 cubic centimeters and filte ■ 
this forms Solution III. r ! 

Solution IV 

Distilled water . . 300 cubic centimeters 
Pure erythrosin.. 1 grain 

Under lamplight the 50 cubic centi- 
meters of Solution III are poured slowly 
with repeated shaking in Solution IV, by 
which the originally beautiful red is eon- 
verted into a dirty turbid bluish red 
somewhat viscid fluid; add — 

Solution V 

Picric acid 4 grams 

Absolute alcohol. 30 cubic centimeters 

Shake well, and add to the whole 33 
cubic centimeters ammonia (specific 
gravity, 0.91), wherewith the beautiful 
red color is restored. 

After the filtration call this Solution 
VI. This solution keeps well. The 
slight deposit formed is redissolvcd on 
shaking. 

The plates are sensitized as follows: 
The plate to be sensitized is first laid in a 
tray of distilled water for S or 3 minutes, 
then bathed in a mixture of 1 cubic cen- 
timeter ammonia for I minute and finally 
for 2 minutes in a bath composed of the 
following: 

Color Solution VI 10 cubic centimeters 
Distilled water. . . 300 cubic centimeters 
The plate is well drained and dried in 
a perfectly dark room. These plates 
keep well for several months. 

MlCROPHOTOGRAPnS. 

The instruments used are an objective 
of very short focus and a small camera 
with a movable holder. This camera 
and the original negative to be redu ? e 
are fastened to the opposite ends ot* 
long, heavy board, similar to tt« * 
rangement in use for the making ol i& 
tern slides. The camera must he 
able in the direction of the objective ft* ■» 
and the negative must be fastened i 
vertically stationary stand. It lS ,;-j e 
uniformly lighted from the reverse a . 
by either davli^ht. or artificial light. 



, . ~-~'J "gUKU J I I'll - 

by either daylight or artificial , 
difficulty is experienced in g?. ttl *iji. 
sharp focus of the picture. ^ lie ,° Dt ,t 
nary ground glass cannot be used, 



u fair fine enough, and the best medium 
K t&J purposed a perfectly plain p*ece 
{ f Xs coated with pretty strongly 
Sdifed cullodion. and sens.ti.ed in the 
Srer bath, the same way as in the wet 
jilZss The focusing is done with a 
P S lens or even with a microscope. 
8£ plaS intended for the picture has, 
bourse to lie in exactly the same plane 
a I the plate used for focusing To be 
SrtdL on this point, it is best to focus 
S the picture plate, inserting for this 
Rle a yellow glass between objective 
plate. If satisfactory sharpness has 
bee n obtained, the apparatus is once for 
all in order for these distances. Bromide 
nf silver gelatin plates, on account of 
their comparatively coarse gram, are not 
suitable for these small pictures, and the 
collodion process has to come to the 

rescue. . . . 

Dagron, in Pans, a prominent spe- 
cialist in this branch, gives the following 
directions : A glass plate is well rubbed on 
both sides with a mixture of 1,000 parts 
of water, 50 parts powdered chalk, and 
200 parts of alcohol, applied with a cot- 
ton tuft, after which it is gone over with 
a dry cotton tuft, and thereafter cleaned 
with a fine chamois leather. The side 
used for taking the picture is then finally 
cleaned with old collodion. The collo- 
dion must be a little thinner than ordi- 
narily used for wet plates. Dissolve 

Ether. 400 parts 

Alcohol 100 parts 

Collodion cotton 3 parts 

Iodide ammonia. . . . 4 parts 
Bromide ammonia. . 1 part 
The plate coated herewith is silvered 
m a silver bath of 7 or 8 per cent. From 
12 to 15 seconds are sufficient for this. 

The plate is then washed in a tray or 
under a faucet with distilled water, to 
liberate it from the free nitrate of silver 
and is afterwards placed upon blotting 
paper to drip off. The still moist plate 
is then coated with the albumen mixture: 

Albumen 150 cubic centimeters 

Add 

Water 15 cubic centimeters 

Iodide potassium 3 grams 

Ammonia 5 grams 

White sugar 2 grams 

Iodine, a small cake. 

With a wooden quirl this is beaten to 
snow (foam) for about 10 minutes, after 
which it must stand for 14 hours to settle. 
The albumen is poured on to the plate 
the same as collodion, and the surplus 
filtered back. After drying, the plate is 
laid for 15 seconds in a silver bath, con- 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



551 



sistmg of 100 parts of water, 10 parts 
nitrate of silver, and 10 cubie centimeters 
of acetic acid. The plate is then care- 
fully washed and left to dry. If care- 
fully kept, it will retain its properties for 
years. To the second silver bath, when 
it assumes a dirty coloration, is added 25 
parts kaolin to each 100 parts, by shak- 
ing the same well, and the bath is then 
filtered, after which a little nitrate of 
silver and acetic acid is added. 

After each exposure the plate holder 
is moved a certain length, so that 10 or 
more reproductions are obtained upon 
one and the same plate. The time of 
exposure depends upon the density of 
the negative and differs according to 
light. It varies between a second and a 
minute. 

The developer is composed as follows: 

Water 100 parts 

Gallic acid 0.3 parts 

Pyro 0-1 part 

Alcohol 2.5 parts 

The exposed plate is immersed in this 
bath, and after 10 to 20 seconds, from 1 
to 2 drops of a 2 per cent nitrate of silver 
solution are added to each 100 cubic 
centimeters of the solution, whereby the 
picture becomes visible. To follow the 
process exactly, the plate has to be laid— 
in yellow light — under a weakly enlarg- 
ing microscope, and only a few drops of 
the developer are put upon the same. 
As soon as the picture has reached the 
desired strength, it is rinsed and fixed in 
a fixing soda solution, 1 to 5. Ten to 15 
seconds are sufficient generally. Finally 
it is washed well. 

After the drying of the plate the sev- 
eral small pictures are cut with a dia- 
mond and fastened to the sma 1 enlarg- 
ing lenses. For this purpose, the latter 
arl laid upon a meta plate heated [from 
underneath, a drop of Canada balsam is 
nnt to one end of the same, and, alter it 

Photographs on Br^-J*^ 
be produced by means of a paper ^ 
paper) whose ^\^JZe JXe can be 
fey means of ordinary ne £* uve Th pic . 
detached in Ink g»™ ^ Tfirsl W in 
ture copied on this pap^ ft g 

tepid wter Af g a tew ^ 
taken out and P 1 ^?"^ face upon it. 
Tlfinamd 4 s^K^which tne pi* 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



tur ei S laid is piously -ated^ 
S m a dry, the -tide is placed 
^Tter in which the paper is loosened 

further aJd finally is coated 
with a good varnish. 
FLASHLIGHT POWDERS AND AP- 
PARATUS. _ . , 
Flash powders to be ignited by simply 
applying the flame of a match or laying 
Tan oiled paper and igniting that may 
be made by the following formulas. 

I. — Magnesium « P arts 

Potassium chlorate.. 12 parts 

II— Aluminum 4 parts 

Potassium chlorate.. 10 parts 

Sugar 1 P art 

The ingredients in each case are to be 
powdered separately, and then lightly 
mixed with a wooden spatula, as the 
compound may be ignited by friction 
and burn with explosive violence. 

It is best to make only such quantity 
as may be needed for use at the time, 
which is 10 or 15 grains. 

To Prevent Smoke from Flashlight. — ■ 
Support over the point where the ignition 
is to take place a large flat pad of damp 
wool lint. This may be done by tacking 
the lint to the underside of a board sup- 
ported on legs. When ignition takes 
place the products of combustion for the 
most part will become absorbed by the 
wool. 

A Flashlight Apparatus with Smoke 
Trap.— A light box, not too large to be 
conveniently carried out into the open 
air, is the first essential, and to the open 
Jront of this grooves must be fitted in 
which grooves a lid will slide very easily 
a large sheet of millboard being con- 
venient as a sliding lid. The box%eing 
so placed that the sliding lid can bf 

to the low U Pr r S\ tliread is attach?! 
the tLlnT- 6dge °S the lid ' after which 
insidV t? n A 1S passed ° ver a Pulley fixed 
s attifch X ^ ear . the l °P' ^n the end 
tlfj *r ed , to the bottom of the box 

u P TL^ d -u h °} ds ^e iiidin°g X 'l3 

at the rieM inlf \r thread bc! ^g cut 
Part aeiS t he ,n f 7 the ^wer 

to be produced ^ - thc fiash » 



for immediate use, the smoke rm 
allowed to settle down in. the box- W • 
other cases the box may be taken a 
into the open air, and the smoke buff ? U 1 
out with a cloth. In the event 0 f 
eral exposures being required i n i-J^" 
diate succession, the required numb,,, 
apparatus might be set up, as each JJ °| 
not cost much to construct. ea 

INTENSIFIERS AND REDUCERS; 

Intensifier (Mercuric) with Sodi» 
Sulphite, for Gelatin Dry Plate* 
Whiten the negative in the saturate 
solution of mercuric chloride, wash and 
blacken with a solution of sulphite of 
sodium, 1 in 5. Wash well. 

The reduction is perfect, with a posi- 
tive black tone. 

Intensifier with Iodide of Mercury.-, 
Dissolve 1 drachm of bichloride of mer- 
cury in 7 ounces of water and 3 drachms 
of iodide of potassium in 3 ounces of 
water, and pour the iodide solution into 
the mercury till the red precipitate formed 
is completely dissolved. 

For use, dilute with water, flow over 
the negative till the proper density is 
reached, and wash, when the deposit will 
turn yellow. Remove the yellow color 
by flowing a 5 per cent solution of hypo 
over the plate, and give it the final wash- 
ing. 

Agfa Intensifier.— One part of agfa 
solution in 9 parts water (10 per cent 
solution). Immerse negative from 4 to 
6 minutes. 

Intensifying Negatives Without Mer- 
cury, — Dissolve 1 part of iodine and | 
parts of potassium iodide in 10 par's of 
water. When required for use, dilute 1 
part of this solution with 100 parts ot 
water. Wash the negative well and 
place in this bath, allowing it to remain 
until it has become entirely yellow, ana 
the image appears purely dark yehw ° 
a light-yellow ground. The negative 
should then be "washed in water WW 
the latter runs off clearly, when u 
floated with the following solution u v K 
the whole of the image has become iu» 
formly brown: 

Schlippe'ssalt 60 gram 3 

Water! • • 1 oUDCC 

Caustic soda solution, 

10 per cent 6 ^ * 

Finally the negative is a*w* d ^ 
oughly washed and dried. 1 B u llS tic 
turn of the small quantity of ir / at j 0 a. 
soda is to prevent surface crystal"* . - - 
It is claimed that, with this intensin * 
operation may be carried out to a g 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



558 



extent than with bichloride of mercury, 
tha,t it ffives clear shadows, and that it 
Possesses the special advantage of re- 
moving entirely any yellow stain the 
Native may have acquired during de- 
velopment and fixing. Furthermore 
with this intensifying method it is not 



negative may have^ acquired during de- 
velopment i 
with this int 

necessary to wash the negative, even 
Ster fixing, as carefully as in the case of 
the intensifying processes with mercury, 
because small traces of hypo winch may 
have been left in the fi m will be rendered 
innocuous by the free iodine. The iodine 
solution may be employed repeatedly if 
its strength is kept up by the addition of 
concentrated stock solution. 

Uranium Intensifier. — 
Potassium ferricya- 

nide (washed) 48 grams 

Uranium nitrate 48 grains 

Sodium acetate 48 grains 

Glacial acetic acid 1 ounce 

Distilled water to 10 ounces. 

Label: Poison. Immerse the well- 
washed negative till the desired intensi- 
fication is reached, rinse for 5 minutes 
and dry. This intensifier acts very 
strongly and should not therefore be 
allowed to act too long. 

MISCELLANEOUS FORMULAS: 

Renovating a Camera. — The follow- 
ing formula should be applied to the 
mahogany of the camera by means of a 
soft rag, rubbing it well in, finally polishing 
lightly with a clean soft cloth: 

Raw linseed oil 6 ounces 

White wine vinegar. . . 3 ounces 
Methylated spirit .... 3 ounces 
Butter of antimony. . . £ ounce 
Mix the oil with vinegar by degrees, 
shaking well to prevent separation after 
each addition, then add the spirit and 
antimony, and mix thoroughly. Shake 
before using. 

Exclusion of Air from Solutions. — 
Water is free from air only when it has 
been maintained for several minutes m 
bubbling ebullition. In order to keep 
out the air from the bottle, when using 
the contents, the air-pressure contriv- 
ances are very convenient; one glass 
tube reaching through the rubber stop- 
. per into the bottle to the bottom, while 
the second tube, provided with a rubber 
pressing-ball, only runs into the flask 
above. If the long bent tube is fitted 
with a rubber tube, a single pressure suf- 
fices to draw off the desired quantity of 
the developer. It is still more convenient 
to pour a thm layer of good sweet oil on 
top of the developer besides. The de- 



veloper is not injured thereby, and the 
exclusion of air is perfect. 

Bottle Wax. — Many ready-prepared 

solutions, such as developers and other 
preparations from which light has to be 
excluded, should be packed in bottles 
whose neck, after complete drying of the 
stopper, is dipped in a pot with molten 
sealing wax. A good recipe is the fol- 
lowing, pigments being added if desired: 
Tor black take: Colophony, 6 parts; 
paraffine, 3 parts. Melt together and 
add 20 parts of black. For yellow, only 
7 parts of chrome yellow. For blue, 7 
parts of ultramarine. 

Bleacbing Photographic Prints White. 

— To make a salt print, ink over it with 
waterproof ink, then bleach out white all 
but the black lines. Sensitize Clemon's 
mat surface paper on a 40-grain bath of 
nitrate of silver. After fuming and 
printing, the print is thoroughly fixed 
m hyposulphite of soda solution, and 
Avashed in running water until every 
trace of the hypo is out of the print. On 
this the permanency of the bleaching op- 
eration depends. The bleaching bath is: 
Bichloride of mercury 1 ounce 

Water 5 ounces 

Alcohol 1 ounce 

Hydrochloric acid.. .. 1 drachm 
If the drawing has been made with 
non-waterproof ink, then alcohol is sub- 
stituted for the water in the formula 
For safety, use an alcoholic solution o 
mercury. The bleaching solution i. 
poured on and off the drawing, and, wh" 
the print is bleached white, the mercury 
washed off the drawing by holding it f o 
a few moments under running water 
Photographs bleached in this way w 
keep white for years. 

To Render Negatives Permanent.— 



fine negative, one 



that we would like t 



preserve, may be rendered pe«n*«- 
L placing it, after it has been fixed, in 
10 P cent solution of alum and lettm 
it remain a few minutes. I ins mat 
he pISe wonderfully dear and clea 
and absolutely unalterable, lhe alu 
Tots upon the gelatin, rendering it I 
soluble. 

Q+rinoine Photograph Films. — T 
is fSSSf done bfimmersing the phi 
£ g forSldehyde solution untd the fil 
log become almost insoluble and l 
hag become » placed in a sol 

Kfrf sodium carbonafe until the gel 
I in hal 'absorbed a sufficient . quanU 
of it When the negative is immers 
il weak hydrochloric acid, carbon 



55* 

bles of gas wb^h Jo d a 
twcen the nini a e ^ fllm 

separation of ™ e * wo \X r hav ; ag har- 
, ma n y e d e the riP fSm °wUh fornLldeh/de it 
f/fLlthy process to get it saturated 
Sith solum carbonate. It is advisable 
t? US e a combined bath of 1 part of car- 
f nn U 1 j of 40 per cent formaldehyde, 
and 20 of water; ?ta tanning action is en- 
hanced by the alkaline reaction and two 
operations are superseded by on* At 
ter 10 minutes' soaking, the surface ox 
the film must be wiped and the plate 
dried A sharp knife is then used to cut 
around the film a slight distance 
from the edge, and when this is done the 
negative is put into a 5 per cent solution 
of hydrochloric acid, when the him will 
probably float off unaided; but, if neces- 
sary, may be assisted by gently raising 
one corner. 

Phosphorescent Photographs. — The 
necessary chemicals belong to the class of 
phosphorescent bodies, among others, 
calcium sulphite, strontium sulphite, 
barium sulphide, calcareous spar, fluor- 
spar. These placed in the magnesium 
light or sunlight, acquire the property of 
giving forth, for a shorter or longer time, 
a light of their own. The best examples 
of these substances are the well-known 
"Balmains light colors," which yield a 
very clear and strong light after ex- 
posure. They consist of calcium sul- 
phide, 10,000 parts; bismuth oxide, 13 
parts; sodium hyposulphite, 1,000 parts. 

According to Professor Schnauss, 
plates for phosphorographs are prepared 
as follows: Dissolve 10 parts of pure 
gelatin in 50 parts of hot wa ter, add and 
dissolve 30 parts of "light" color (as 
above), and 1 part of glycerine. 

If a plate or a paper, prepared as 
above detailed, be placed under a dia- 

ESlLi 1 ? ^ c °Pyi n g apparatus, and 
submitted to the action of sunlight for a 

room mmUt ^' \ hen takcn out & a <iark 
room a phosphorescent picture of tho 

tZTrA 1 h& J° u1ld I* 7s also a 
5K« * th t l du P lic ^ negatives or 
posittves may be made with this nlv„ 

Fn e»i n by --P^^ingtg the 

seconds Klfi T r , r0m,5e P late for 3 ° 
doping ;Ltme a . rk End the * de ~ 

tKS* 0 f a X S °* Pnotographs.^ 
0^ the pToWr^n" . matter t0 be 

an exposure on T\ ' fr ° m this make 
on a transparency p l ate , 



- PHOTOGRAPHY 



developing it strongly. After the r, ■ 
has been made from the regular mim- lnt 
negative, it is placed under the d g 
transparency of the regular nepJ^ 
and the name printed in. r f n ' 



.gular n egati - 
— - _ m. xhe an\l 

precaution necessary is to til — y 



preeuiiLiuu. iiti-waaij 1B lo time tr 
transparency negative properly, aim j 
velop strongly, so as to get goo d 



trast. Photographers will find this 
much easier and quicker method th * 
the old one of printing on tissue pat!? 
and fastening the paper to the negativ 
by means of varnish; moreover th* 
result is black instead of white, usually 
much more pleasing. * 

Spots on Photographic Plates.— Spots 
on photographic plates may be caused 
by dust or by minute bubbles i n the 
emulsion, both of which are easily pre- 
ventable, but some spots cannot be 
ascribed to either of these causes. On 
investigating this trouble, Mumford 
found that it is due to the presence on 
the surface of the film of small colonics 
of microorganisms which, under condi- 
tions favorable to their growth, are capa- 
ble of producing large mold colonies, 
from which the organisms can easily be 
separated. Experiments were instituted 
in order to find whether these growths 
can be produced on the plate by arti- 
ficial means, by inoculating the surface 
with a fluid culture of one of these 
organisms, with affirmative results, but 
with one slight difference, namely, that 
in the inoculated film, on microscopic 
examination, no du particle was visible 
in the center of each spot, which had 
formerly been the case. As these micro- 
organisms do not exist in the air as iso- 
lated units, but travel upon small or large 
dust particles in the case under consid- 
eration, the carrying medium most 
probably is the fine impalpable dust 
from which it is practically impossible to 
free the air of a building. In order 
that these organisms may grow intP 
colonies of sufficient size Lo cause spots, 
they must be able to grow rapidly, there 
being only about 12 hours before tn 
plate is dry in which they can grow; ana 
they must also be capable of g^JJp j 
the rather high temperature of "V *' 
On testing some of the organisms cau 
ing the spots it was found that they g^^ 
best under exactly such conditions. ^ 
bacteriological examination of some 
the gelatin used in the manufacture^ 
plates, both in the raw state and in - 
form of emulsion, also revealed the ^ 
that there were numerous or £ a " t ; 0 n 
present. No means for the P reVC " te d-- 
of this troublesome defect is sugge- 



PHOTOGRAPHY— PIGMENTS 



555 



the 

a 
but 
eient 



t tiI ate manufacturers use tl 
mOS * Sto add a small quantity of 
SXnSseptie to the emulsion - 
S i not possibfe to employ a suffic 
t Entity to destroy any organisms that 
S bl present without damaging the 
Xtc for photographic purposes. 

To Remove Pyro Stains from the Fin- 
Js-Make a strong solution oF chlori- 
g VjA lime- dip the fingers which are 
Sained in this, and rub the stains with a 
S crystal of citric acid. Apply the 
&e solution and acid alternately until 
thf stain is removed; then rinse with 
water. 

To Remove Pyro Stain from Nega- 
tives.— Immerse in a clearing bath as 
follows: 

Protosulphate of iron . 3 ounces 

Alum } ouuce 

Citric acid 1 ounce 

Water 2° ounces 

Prevention is better than cure^ how- 
ever- therefore immerse the negatives in 
the above directly they are taken from 
the fixing bath. After clearing the neg- 
atives, they should be well washed. 



Process of Transferring Photos to 
Watch Cases and Dials.— Flow the 
photo with the solution as made below, 
let dry ten or fifteen minutes, then paste 
down on a piece of clean window glass 
using an ordinary paste. Let dry for an 
hour or dry more quickly over a lamp. 
Then with your finger, rub the back of 
the picture" from the center outward, 
using plenty of cold water. When paper 
is all off, lay the glass in hot water and 
the composition will lift from the glass. 
Put it on a piece of common paper cut 
, to the size desired and throw the circle 
tack in the water and the impression 
will float from the paper. Then cover 
the case or dial with a solution of Acacia 
and stick the picture in the case with a 
silk handkerchief and the work is done. 
Solution for flowing over photo: 

Ethyl Chloride or Sul- 
phuric Ether 1 drachm 

Collodion 1 ounce 

Venice Turpentine 

about 6 drops 

A little less turpentine will be best to 
start with and add more if the film does 
not turn white quickly when working. 
Follow the directions carefully. 



Pigments 

(See also Paints.) 
Nature, Source, and Manufacture of 
Pigments. — A pigment is a dry earthy or 
clayey substance that, when mixed with 
oil, water, etc., forms a paint. Most 
pigments are of mineral origin, but there 
are vegetable pigments, as logwood, and 
animal pigments, as cochineal. In 
modern practice the colors are produced 
mainly by dyeing certain clays, which 
excel in a large percentage of silicic acid, 
with aniline dyestuffs. The coloring 
matters best adapted for this purpose 
are those of a basic character. The col- 
ors obtained in this manner excel in a 
vivid hue, and fastness to light and water. 

Following is a general outline of their, 
manufacture: One hundred parts, by 
weight, of washed clay in paste form are 
finely suspended in 6 to 8 times the volume 
of water and acidulated with about 1J 
parts, by volume, of 5 percent hydrochlo- 
ric or acetic acid, and heated by means 
of steam almost to the boiling tempera- 
ture. There is next introduced, ac- 
cording to the shade desired, 1 to 2 parts, 
by weight, of the dyestuff, such as aura- 
min, diamond green, Victoria blue, etc., 
■with simultaneous stirring and heating, 
for 1 to 2 hours, or until a sample filtered 
off from the liquor shows no dyestuff. 
; Next the clay dyed in this manner is 
1 isolated by filtration and washed with 
hot water and dried. The colors thus 
obtained may be used as substitutes foi 
mineral colors of all description. 

The method of manufacture varies 
greatly. According to the ; Bennett and 
ILstin English patent the P^edure 
is as follows : Grind together to a paste 
n water, substances of a clayey, stony 
earthy, or vitreous nature, and certain 
Letarlic oxides, or "prepared oxides 
such as are commonly used "J the pot 
r^rv trades* dry and powder the paste, 
S subject the y powde P r to the heat of a 
furnace, of such a temperature hat th 

b^K of F c°obS 
ample, 8 parts oiui* of 



alumina, ween "'^V-jj. of e l a y an< 
times their combined h u k ot c y 

treated as J^^U clay, f < 
pigment m the case ^oi ^ 
a rich green m the case or y 
Long-continued firing in uu» 



.LrOIlg- 





&*h auother! the color being brought 
out by calcination. 
Mixing Oil Colors and Tints.—It must 
frfpf nected that the formulas given 
iifl ?codu« the exact effect desired be- 
clLlthe strength of the various brands 
°t ™U,-t varv to a great extent, and 
tlrefo^e the fainter g must exercise. his 
own ud-ment The table simply gives 
a ™dea of -hat can be produced by fob- 
lowin* the formulas, given, when chem- 
By pure material is employed m the 
mixing. It is also recommended that 
the parts mentioned be weighed out m 
paste form, and the white or black and 
each color separately thinned and 
strained before mixing them together, 
because the arriving at the proper hue ot 
color or depth and tone of tint will be 
simplified by using that precaution By 
thinning it is not meant that they should 
be quite ready for application, but of 
such consistency that they will pass an 
ordinary strainer with the aid of a 
brush. 

Unless otherwise indicated, the ma- 
terials are understood to be ground fine 
in paste form. 

Note. — The majority of the following 
are by Joseph Griggs, in the Painters 
Magazine: 

GROUNDS FOR GRAINING COLORS: 

Ash Ground. — Four hundred parts white 
lead; 4 parts French ocher; 1 part raw 
Turkey umber. 

l- Raw umDer ; ra w sienna; and a 

little black or Vandyke brown. 

Hungarian Ash.— Raw sienna and raw 
and burnt umber. 

Bun Ash —Raw sienna; burnt umber: 
and Vandyke brown. 

Cherry Ground.— One hundred parts 
white lead; o parts burnt sienna; 1 part 
raw sienna. F 

sif ^ tura l Cherry.-Raw and Wt 
sietma and raw umber. 

umEtteT B r nt sie1 ^; burnt 
uiuuer, and. Vandyke brown. 

V a nd e yt^ Ut b~S aW rie ™S burnt umber; 
sienna br0Wn; and a "ttle burni 

Sr'T, Ra , W Sienna and raw ^mber. 

^whSfcsr^ black — a 



^ <*>nnd.-One hundred 



.... a , wne hundred 

ead; 1 part p rench och(n ,_ 



3er: 



parts white lead; 1 part dark g0 ^ 
ocher. 1 

Oak.— Raw sienna; burnt umh* 
little black. 

Pollard Oak. — Raw and burnt sien 
or burnt umber and Vandyke brown 

Light Oak Ground.— Fifty parts w yk, 
lead; 1 part .trench ocher. ie 

Dark Oak Ground —Fifty partg ^. 
lead; 1 part dark golden ocher. 

Satinwood. — Add a little ivory black 
to maple color. 

Mahogany. — Burnt sienna; burnt 
ber; and Vandyke brown. 

Mahogany Ground. — Ten parts white 
laad; 5^ parts orange chrome; and 1 n art 
burnt sienna. 

Rosewood. — Vandyke brown and a 
little ivory black. 

Rosewood Ground. — Drop black. 

Walnut Ground. — Fifty parts white 
lead; 3 parts dark golden ocher; 1 part 
dark Venetian red; and 1 part drop 
black. 

Black Walnut. — Burnt umber with a 
little Vandyke brown for dark parts. 

French Burl Walnut, — Same as black 
walnut. 

Hard Pine. — Raw and burnt sienna; 
add a little burnt umber. 

Cyprens. — Raw and burnt sienna and 
burnt umber. 

Whitewood, — Grornd same as for 
light ash; graining color, yellow ocher, 
adding raw umber and black for dark 
streaks. 

POSITIVE COLORS: 

Blue.— Twelve parts borate of lime; J 
parts oxide of zinc; 10 parts litharge; 9 parts 
feldspar; 4 parts oxide of cobalt. 

Blue Black A. — Nine parts lamp- 
black; X part Chinese or Prussian blue. 

Blue Black B.— Nineteen parts drop 
black; 1 part Prussian blue. 

Bright Mineral.— Nine parts light > « 
netian red; 1 part red lead. 

Brilliant Green.— Nine parts FjJ* 
green; 1 part C. C. chrome green, hgn • 

Bronze Green, Light.— Three V*™ 
raw Turkey umber; 1 part medium 
chrome yellow. t3 

Bronze Green, Medium.— Five PJJ^ 
medium chrome yellow; 3 pa r * s 
Turkey umber; 1 part lampblack- ^ 

Bronze Green, Dark.— Twenty PJ^. 
drop black; 2 parts medium ^ toJ °*/ 
low; and 1 aart dark orange chrome- 



PIGMENTS 



557 



Bottle Green. — Five parts commercial 
chrome green, medium, and 1 part 
drop black. 

Browru — Ten parts crude antimony; 
12 parts litharge; 2 parts manganese; 
1 part oxide of iron. 

Brown Stone.— Eighteen parts burnt 
umber; 2 parts dark golden ocher; and 1 
part burnt sienna. 

Cherry Red. — Equal parts of best 
imitation vermilion and No. 40 carmine. 

Citron A. — Three parts medium chrome 
yellow and 2 parts raw umber. 

Citron B. — Six parts commercial chrome 
green, light, and 1 part medium chrome 
yellow. 

Coffee Brown. — Six parts burnt Tur- 
key umber; 2 parts French oeher; and 1 
part burnt sienna. 

Emerald Green. — Use Paris green. 

Green.— Twenty parts litharge; 12 parts 
flint; 2 parts oxide of coppet ; %\ parts ground 
glass; 2 J parts whiting; \\ parts oxide of 
chrome. 

Flesh Color. — Nineteen parts French 
ocher; 1 part deep English vermilion. 

Fern Green. — Five parts lemon chrome 
yellow and I part each of light chrome 
green and drop black. 

Foliage Green.— Three parts medium 
chrome yellow and 1 part of ivory or 
drop black. 

Foliage Brown. — Equal parts of Van- 
dyke brown and orange chrome yellow. 

Golden Ocher. — Fourteen parts French 
yellow ocher and 1 part medium chrome 
yellow for the light shade, and 9 parts 
Oxford oeher and 1 part orange chrome 
yellow for the dark shade. 

Gold Russet. — Five parts lemon chrome 
yellow and 1 part light Venetian red. 

Gold Orange. — Equal parts of dry 
orange mineral and light golden ocher in 
oil. 

Indian Brown. — Equal parts of light 
Indian red, French ocher, and lamp 
black. 

Mahogany, Cheap. — Three parts dark 
golden oeher and 1 part of dark Venetian 
red. 

Maroon, Light. — Five parts dark Ve- 
netian red; 1 part drop black. 

Maroon, Dark. — Nine parts dark In- 
dian red; 1 part lampblack. 

Olive Green. — Seven parts light golden 
ocher; 1 part drop black. 

Ochrous Olive. — Nine parts French 
ocher; 1 part raw umber. 



Orange Brown.— Equal parts burnt 
sienna and orange chrome yellow. 

Oriental Red.— Two parts Indian red. 
light, in oil; 1 part dry red lead. 

Purple A. — Eight parts crocus martis; 
2 parts red hematite; 1 part oxide of iron. 

Purple B. — Two parts rose pink; 1 
part ultramarine blue. 

Purple Black. — Three parts lamp- 
black and 1 part rose pink, or 9 parts 
drop black and 1 part rose pink. 

Purple Brown. — Five parts Indian 
red, dark, and 1 part each of ultramarine 
blue and lampblack. 

Roman Ocher. — Twenty-three par 
French ocher and 1 part each burnt 
sienna and burnt umber. 

Royal Blue, Bark. — Eighteen parts 
ultramarine blue and 2 parts Prussian 
blue. To lighten use as much white 
lead or zinc white as is required. 

Royal Purple. — Two parts ultramarine 
blue; 1 part No. 40 carmine or carmine 
lake. 

Russet. — Fourteen parts orange 
chrome yellow and 1 part C. P. chrome 
green, medium. 

Seal Brown. — Ten parts burnt umber; 
2 parts golden oeher, light; 1 part burnt 
sienna. 

Snuff Brown. — Equal parts burnt um- 
ber and golden ocber, light. 

Terra Cotta. — Two parts white lead; 1 
part burnt sienna; also 2 parts French 
ocher to 1 part Venetian red. 

Turkey Red. — Strong Venetian red or 
red oxide. 

Tuscan Red. Ordinary.— Nine parts 
Indian red to 1 part rose pink. 

Brilliant. — Four parts Indian red to 1 
part red madder lake. 

Violet — Three parts ultramarine blue; 
2 parts rose lake; 1 part best ivory black. 

Yellow — Four and one-half parts tin 
ashes; 1 part crude antimony; 1 part 
litharge; and 1 part red ocher. 

Yellow, Amber.— Ten ports medium 
chrome yellow; 7 parts burnt umber; 3 



white 



parts burnt sienna 

,^frrfS=5T^ 1 Part 
lemon chrome yellow. 

Yellow Golden.— Ten parts lemon 
chlme^elW; 3 parts orange chrome, 
dark; 5 parts white lead. 

1 part permanent yellow. 



PIGMENTS 

irts white lea*!; 



BBS 

Azure Blue-— K'Y V 

I P»" "i'T^oL hundred parte white 

Blue Gta. S 3.-Seyen parg ^te lead; 

8 C"^L P pa':whi S . r a : 

1 pSSian blue er Antwerp blue 

TJrench Blue.— Five parts imitation 
JS&J* P a* French ,inc wfai*. 

Green Blue.— One hundred parts 
white lead; 5 part, lemon chrome yellow; 
8 parts ultramarine blue. 

Hazy Blue.— Sixty parts white lead; 10 
parts ultramarine blue; 1 part burnt 
sienna. , 

Mineral Blue.— Five parts white lead; 
4 parts imitation cobalt blue; Z parts 
red madder lake; 1 part best ivory or 
drop black. 

Orient Blue.— Twenty-five parts white 
lead; £ parts Prussian blue; 1 part lemon 
chrome yellow. 

Royal Blue. — Thirty-four parts white 
lead; 19 parts ultramarine blue; 2 parts 
Prussian blue; 1 part rose madder or 
rose lake. 

Sapphire Blue. — Two parts French 
zinc white and 1 part best Chinese blue.. 

Sky Blue. — One hundred parts white 
lead; 1 part Prussian blue. 

Solid Blue. — Five parts white lead; 1 
part ultramarine blue. 

Turquoise Blue. — Twenty parts white 
lead; 3 parts ultramarine blue; 1 
lemon chrome yellow. 

RED TINTS: 

Cardinal Red.— Equal parts of white 
lead and scarlet lake. 

Carnation Red.— Fifteen parts white 
lead; 1 part scarlet lake. 

zin? a I et "~i Twenty_one P art9 oxid e of 
acic h aeid e; ^ lead ' 3 P arts bor " 

orange chrome. ™ mih ™> 1 V** deep 
l£7refe~ Te11 PartS wMte lead ; 

ip D aZi?Si e ;i7 F vir parts ^ ^ 

Been 5? Ue; 1 P art rose P** 

lead. * Z Parts red la ^e; 5 parts white 



Lue; 1 part 



Flesh Pink. — One hundred n arT 
white lead; 1 part orange chrome yeEw. 
1 part red lake. > 
Indian Pink.— One hundred part, 
white lead; 1 part light Indian red. 

Lavender. — Fifty parts white l ea d« o 
parts ultramarine blue; 1 part red lake. 

Light Pink. — Fifty parts white leadL^i 
part bright vermilion. 

Lilac. — Fifty parts white lead; l part 
best rose pink. 

Mauve. — Fifteen parts white lead; % 
parts ultramarine blue; 1 part carmine 
fake or red lake. 

Orange Pink. — Two parts white lead- 
1 part dark orange chrome or American 
vermilion. 

Purple. — Five parts white lead; g 
parts ultramarine blue; 1 part red mad- 
der lake. 

Royal Pink. — Five parts white lead, 
1 part carmine lake or red madder lake. 

Royal Rose. — Twenty parts white 
lead; 1 part rich rose lake. 

Red Brick. — Ten parts white lead; 3 
parts light Venetian red; 1 part yellow 
ocher. 

Reddish Terra Cotta.— Two parts 
white lead; 1 part rich burnt sienna. 

Salmon. — Fifty parts white lead; o 
parts deep orange chrome. 

Shell Pink. — Fifty parts white lead; 8 
parts bright vermilion; 1 part orange 
chrome; 1 part burnt sienna. 

Violet. — Fifteen parts white lead; 4 
parts ultramarine blue; 3 parts rose 
fake; 1 part drop black. 



GREEN TINTS: 



Fifty parts white lead; 
, fight or medium 



green 



Apple Green. 

1 part chrome 
shade. 

Citrine Green.— One hundred pars 
white lead; S parts medium chrom 
yellow; 1 part drop black. 

Citron Green.— One hundred I Pjg 
white lead; 3 parts medium cu 
yellow; 1 part lampblack. 

Emerald Green.— Ten parts * 
lead; 1 part Paris (emerald) green- 

Grass Green A. — Five parts 
lead; 7 parts Paris green. - . . 0 f 

fit-a^c fi r» T^n narts w « tj 

irts * 
part 



ch 



rorae; 



2 parts tin ashes; 5 pa 
- ° martis; 1 

white 1 



mg; 1 part crocus 
chr omate potash. 

Gray Green. — Five 
1 part Verona green. 



parts 



PIGMENTS 



559 



Marine Green.— Ten parts white lead; 
1 part ultramarine green. 

wile Green.— Fifty parts white lead; 
6 parts medium chrome green; 1 part 
Prussian blue. 

Olive Green.— Fifty parts white lead; 
9 narts medium chrome yellow; 3 parts 
tJr umber; 1 part drop black. 

Olive Drab.— Fifty parts white lead; 8 
_ ar t s raw umber; 5 parts medium chrome 
P. ipart drop black. 

pea Green.— Fifty parts white lead; 1 
part light chrome greeu. 

Satin Green.— Three parts white lead; 
1 part Milori green. 

Sage Green. — One hundred parts 
white lead; 3 parts medium chrome 
greeu; 1 part raw umber. 

Sea Green.— Fifty parts white lead; 1 
part dark chrome green. 

Stone Green.— Twenty-five parts white 
lead; 2 parts dark chrome green; 3 parts 
raw umber. 

Velvet Green. Twenty parts white 
lead; 7 parts medium chrome green; 2 
parts burnt sienna. 

Water Green.— Fifteen parts white 
lead; 10 parts French ocher; 1 part dark 
chrome green. 

BROWN TINTS: 

Chocolate.— Twenty-five parts white 
lead; 3 parts burnt umber. 

Cocoanut. — Equal parts white lead 
and burnt umber. 

Cinnamon. — Ten parts white lead; 2 
parts burnt sienna; 1 part French ocher. 

Dark Drab. — Forty parts white lead; 
1 part burnt umber. 

Dark Stone. — Twenty parts 
lead; 1 part raw umber. 

Fawn. — Fifty parts white lead; 3 
parts burnt umber; 2 parts French 
ocher. 

Golden Brown. — Twenty-five parts 
white lead; 4 parts French ocher; 1 part 
burnt sienna. 

Hazel Nut Brown. — Twenty parts white 
lead; 5 parts burnt umber; 1 part me- 
dium chrome yellow. 

Mulberry— Ten parts manganese; 2 
parts cobalt blue; 2 parts saltpeter. 

Purple Brown. — Fifty parts white 
lead; 6 parts Indian red; 2 parts ultra- 
marine blue; 1 part l ,ampblack. 

Red Brown. — Twelve parts hematite 
ore; 3 parts manganese; 7 parts litharge; 
2 parts yellow ocher. 



white 



Seal Brown. — Thirty parts white lead; 
5 parts burnt umber; 1 part medium 
chrome yellow. 

Snuff Brown. — Twenty- five parts white 
lead; 1 part burnt umber; 1 part Oxford 
ocher. 

GRAY TINTS: 

Ash. Gray. — Thirty parts white lead; 
2 parts ultramarine blue; 1 part burnt 
sienna. 

Cold Gray. — Five hundred parts white 
lead; 6 parts lampblack; 1 part Antwerp 
blue. 

Dove Color. — Twelve parts manga- 
nese; 5 parts steel filings; 3 parts whiting; 
1 part oxide of cobalt. 

Dove Gray. — Two hundred parts 
white lead; 5 parts ultramarine blue; 2 
parts drop black. 

French Gray. — One hundred and fifty 
parts white lead; 2 parts lampblack; 1 
part orange chrome yellow; 1 part 
chrome red (American vermilion). 

Lead Color. — Fifty parts white lead; 
1 part lampblack (increase proportion 
of white lead for light tints). 

Lustrous Gray. — Ten parts white 
lead; 1 part graphite (plumbago). 

Olive Gray. — Two hundred parts 
white lead; 2 parts lampblack; I part 
medium chrome green. 

Pure Gray. — One hundred parts white 
lead; 1 part drop black. 

Pearl Gray.— One hundred parts 
white lead; 1 part ultramarine blue; 1 
part drop black. 

Silver Gray.— One hundred and fifty 
parts white lead; 2 parts lampblack; 3 
parts Oxford ocher. 

Warm Gray.— One hundred parts 
■white lead; 3 parts drop black; 2 part* 
French ocher; 1 part Iig£t Venetian red 
Note.— For inside work and wheneve 
desirable, the white lead may be replace 
by zinc white or a mixture of the two 
white pigments may be used. Be it ais 
remembered that pure colors, as a rul 
win produce the cleanest tints, and tha 
fineness of grinding is an importan 
Wtor It wilJ not be amiss to call a 
f rtio r n toV fact that the «ce-.« us 

t ^ e Sie rS SP with Iy delat rk tin^i S ba 
liquid driers, wmi « . t j,erwis 

colors. 

COLOR TESTING. 



560 



PIGMENTS 



1 



often 
man 



though such - -aminat^^ 

TS STK^Vt^totaSw what per 
,t is less }™P . roatter a paint con 
centage of ^eign ances con . 

S& Set which may act injuriously 



taine - , 

some way or otner 



in 



ff aniffmentisto be tested for arsen- 
U a P 1 ff me ^ ed h y dro chloric acid into 



ic, pour P u unnea n 1 V T " haBed glass vessel 
a test tube or a U-shapea gxa^ 
which withstands heat, add a lime 01 



KroagW coL the hydrochloric acid 
imply fn the first moment), and finally 
HSll quantity of stannous chloride 
Now heat the test tube with its contents 
moderately over a common spin lam 
If the liquid or mass has assumed a 
brown or brownish color after, being 
heated, arsenic is present m the pigment 
or fabric, etc. , 

An effective but simple test for the 
durability of a color is to paint strips ot 
thick paper and nail them on the wall in 
the strongest light possible. A strip of 

Eaper should then be nailed over one- 
alf of the samples of color so as to pro- 
tect them from the light. On removing 
this the difference in shade between the 
exposed and unexposed portions will be 
very apparent. Some colors, such as 
the verrnilionettes, will show a marked 
difference after even a few weeks. 

Testing Body Colors for Gritty Ad- 
mixtures. — The fineness of the pow- 
dered pigment is not a guarantee of the 
absence of gritty admixtures. The latter 
differ from the pigment proper in their 
specific gravity. If consisting of metallic 
oxides or metallic sulphides the sandy 
admixtures are lighter than the pigments 
and rise to the surface upon a syste- 
matic shaking of the sample. In the 
case of other pigments, e. g. } aluminas 
and iron varnish colors, they collect at 
tne bottom. For carrying out the test, a 
jmoothlv bored metallic tube about J 
to i inch in diameter and 6 to 7 inches 
long is used. Both ends are closed with 
screw caps and at one side of the 
Hi^\ 01ne h °J cs about * of ^ inch in 
a rubbS lT bWe f J doSed b * P ieces of 
filled wftl ?lf P - Shed ° n - The tube ^ 
ud an? f w 0 P^ent powder, screwed 

vertical ™ b - y Sh f^ for 8orae tim * ^ a 
SS P 2 ?ltl ° n ( V le len ^ of time vary- 

8 v^r^ft b n c ° w be * aken f ^ om 

tubes wm.l^ v. ? i er haps glass 

aperies enr, + P l eferable ' bu * la *eral 

Afters Scesslh 80 ?^ made " 
necessar T samples have been 



collected m this manner, they must , 
prepared with a sUndard sample, whi.k 
is accomplished either by feeling the nn 
der between the fingers or by mspecti!'"" 
it under a microscope, or else by m** 
of the scratching test, which last 
is the usual way. The requisites f 
these scratch tests consist of two soft" 
well-polished glass plates (34 x2| iacheo 
which are fixed by means of ceuient i 
two stronger plates of hard wood sxnt 
ably hollowed out. The surface of tU 
glass must project about £ inch over the 
wooden frame. If a sample of the m B 
ment powder is placed on such a gl^ 
plate, another plate is laid on top and 
both are rubbed slowly together; this 
motion will retain a soft, velvety charac- 
ter in case the pigment is free from" 
gritty admixtures; if otherwise, the glass 
is injured and a corresponding sound 
becomes audible. Next the powder is 
removed from the plate, rubbing the 
latter with a soft rag, and examining 
the surface with a microscope. From tlie 
nature of the scratches on the plate the 
kind of griLty ingredients can be readily 
determined. _ The human finger is suffi- 
ciently sensitive to detect the presence of 
gritty substances, yet it is not capable qI 
distinguishing whether they consist of im- 
perfectly reduced or badly sifted grains 
of pigment or real gritty admixtures. 

To Determine the Covering Power of 
Pigments. — -To determine the covering 
power of white lead, or any other pig- 
ment, take equal quantities of several 
varieties of white lead and mix them 
with a darker pigment, black, blue, etc., 
the latter also in equal proportions. The 
white lead which retains the lightest 
color is naturally the most opaque. l n 
a similar manner, on the other hand, tne 
mixing power of the dark pigments can 
be ascertained. If experiments are 
made with a variety of white lead or 
zinc white, by the admixture of dark pig- 
ments, the color which tints the wAite 
lead or zinc white most, also possess . 
the greatest covering or mixing power. 

To Detect the Presence of AnihjK sjj 
a Pigment.— Lay a little of the co i° f 
upon letter paper and pour a dr0 jj: rie 
spirit on it. If it is mixed with an 
the paper is colored right through « ^ 
by, while a pure pigment does not 
the shade of the paper and Will 
penetrate it. ^ 

Vehicle for Oil Colors.— Pet^XdW 
to 30 pounds; tallow, 3 to 5 P°; u c0 ]- 
cotton-seed oil, 5 to 7 J> oUn -*' e pts 
ophony, 5 to 7 pounds. The 




havmff been ground up with this mix- 
, u * foe mixed paint can be made still 
i.*^r by adding to it about a sixth 
of its weight of the following mixture: 
Vegetable oil, S to 20 pounds; saponified 
rosin, 6 to 16 pounds; turpentine, 4 to 30 
ounces. 

Frankfort Black. — Frankfort black, 
also known as German black, is a name 
anplied to a superior grade of lamp- 
black In s° me districts of Germany 
it is said to be made by calcining wine 
lees and tartar. The material is heated 
in large cylindrical vessels having a vent 
in the cover for the escape of smoke and 
vapors that are evolved during the proc- 
ess When no more smoke is observed, 
the operation is finished. The residuum 
in the vessels is then washed several times 
in boiling water to extract the salts con- 
tained therein and finally is reduced to 
the proper degree of fineness by grinding 
on a porphyry. 

Paris Green.— Emerald or Paris green 
is rather permanent to light, but must 
not be mixed with pigments containing 
sulphur, because of the tendency to 
slacken when so mixed. It will not re- 
sist acids, ammonia, and caustics. 

PIGMENT PAPER: 
See Photography. 

PILE OINTMENTS. 

I. — "Extract" witch- 
hazel 2 fluidounces 

Lanum 2 ounces 

Petrolatum 6 ounces 

Glycerine 4 fluidounces 

Tannic acid 1 drachm 

Powdered opium . 1 drachm 

II- — Tannic acid 20 grains 

Bismuth subni- 

trate 1 drachm 

Powdered opium . 10 grains 

Lanum. 3 drachms 

Petrolatum 5 drachms 

PINE SYRUP: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

PINEAPPLE ESSENCE: 
See Essences and Extracts. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE: 

oee Beverages. 

SING PONG FRAPPE: 

oee Beverages, under Lemonades. 
SINS OF WATCHES: 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 
PINION ALLOY: 

* e e Watchmakers' Formulas. 



PINK SALVE: 

See Ointments. 
PINKEYE: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

PIPE-JOINT CEMENT: 

See Cement. 

PIPE LEAKS: 

See Leaks. 

PLANT PARASITES: 

A spray which will destroy most plant 
parasites can be made as follows: Dis- 
solve 5 pounds of copper sulphate, 5 
pounds quicklime in 50 gallons of water. 
You can use this spray on pear, apple 
and cherry trees with good results. 

PLANTS: 

Temperature of Water for Watering- 
Plants. — Experiments were made sev- 
eral years ago at the Wisconsin Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station to determine 
whether cold water was detrimental to 
plants. Plants were grown under glass 
and in the open field, and in all cases 
the results were similar. Thus, coleus 
planted in lots of equal size and vigor 
were watered with water at 35°, 50°, 65°, 
and 86° F. At the end of 60 days it was 
impossible to note any difference, and 
when the experiment was repeated with 
water at 32°, 40°, 70°, and 100° P., Ihe 
result was the same. Beans watered with 
water at 32°, 40°, 70°, and 100° F., were 
equally vigorous; in fact, water at 32° 
and 40° P. gave the best results. Lettuce 
watered with water at 32° P. yielded 
slightly more than the other lots. From 
these experiments it was concluded that 
for vegetable and flowering plants com- 
monly grown under glass, ordinary well 
or spring water may be used freely at 
any time of the year without warming. 

PLANT PRESERVATIVES: 

See Flowers. 

Plaster 

(See also Gypsum.) 

Therapeutic Grouping of Medicinal 
Plasters— The vehicle for medicated 
p las S requires some other attribute 
Fhan simply adhesiveness. From a study 
of he tferapy of plasters thy may be 
nut in three groups, similarly to tne 
Ointments with reference to their general 
therapeutic uses, winch also governs the 
sefeSon of the respective vehicles. 

I .—Epidermatic: Supportive, protec- 



PLASTER 



562 

iib e S ive.OfncmI Plasters: Emp. ad- 
gent »J tera OT cle: Oleates or lead 

S ._-Diadcrmatic. Lan0 lm 
hydrargyri. 

This method of incorporatmgthe ruD 

^y^ om^of thelpparatus weighing 
many tons-and enormous steam power, 
^application for pharmaceutical pur- 
poses is out of the question. 
P As is well known, the process consists 
in- l. Purification of the rubber by 
maseerating and pressing it and re- 
moving foreign impurities by elutriating 
it with water. %. Forming a homoge- 
neous mass of the dried purified rubber 
by working it on heated revolving rollers 
and incorporating sufficient quantities i of 
orris powder and oleoresins. 3. In- 
corporating the medicinal agent, i. e., 
belladonna extract, with the rubber mass 
by working it on warmed revolving rollers. 
4. Spreading the prepared plaster. 

Solution in Volatile Solvents. — This 
process has been recommended from 
lime to time, the principal objection 
being the use of so relatively large quan- 
tities of inflammable solvents. 

The German Pharmacopoeia Method. 
•—The following is the formula of "Arz- 
neibuch fiir dag Deutsche Reich," 1900: 
Emplastrum adhesivum: Lead plaster, 
waterfree, 40 parts; petrolatum, 2.5 parts; 
liquid petrolatum, 2.5 parts, are melted 
together, and to the mixture add rosin, 
35 parts; dammar, 10 parts, previously 
melted. To the warm mixture is added 
caoutchouc, 10 parts; dissolved in ben- 
zine 75 parts, and the mixture stirred 

on the water-bath until all the benzine 

18 lost hj evaporation. 

: k™£0i C °i e Pi ast ™m adhesivum of the 

Austrian Society ls still more complex, 

Rosin nT containin ? the following: 
vShl T^Py^rnatlc, 150 parts; co- 
Paiba, 100 parts: main, inn i' j 



is then added orris powder, 220 parts; saT1 , 
darac, 50 parts; ether, 400 parts. The 
mixture, when uniform, is spread on 
cloth. 



ffSiti 00 pa £v s; roslTl ' 1,00 ^ ts > 1>ard " 



Darts £Tu m . lich caoutchouc, 250 
Parts, has been previously dissolved; to this 



Solution of Rubber in Fixed Solvent- 
Petrolatum and Incorporation with Lead 
Acetate.— India rubber dissolves, though 
with difficulty, in petrolatum. The heat 
required to melt the rubber being Com , 
rjaratively high, usually considerably 
more than 212° F., as stated in the 
U, S. R-> it is necessary to melt the rubber 
first and then add the petrolatum, i n 
order to avoid subjecting the latter to the 
higher temperature. The mixture 0 f 
equal parts of rubber and petrolatum is 
of a soft jelly consistence, not especially 
adhesive, but when incorporated with 
the lead oleate furnishes a very adhesive 
plaster. While at first 5 per cent of each 
rubber and petrolatum was used, it has 
been found that the petrolatum would 
melt and exude around the edges of the 
plaster when applied to the skin, and the 
quantity was therefore reduced to 2 per 
cent of each. This mass affords a plas- 
ter which is readily adhesive to the body, 
does not run nor become too soft. Plas- 
ters spread on cloth have been kept for 
months exposed to the sun in the sum- 
mer weather without losing their stabil- 
ity or permanency. 

The lead oleate made by the inter- 
action of hot solution of soap and lead 
acetate, thoroughly washed with hot 
water, and freed from water by working 
the precipitated oleate on a hot tile, is 
much to be preferred to the lead plaster 
made by the present official process 1 &e 
time honored method of boiling litharge, 
olive oil, and water is for the requirements 
of the pharmacists most tedious and un- 
satisfactory. Since in the beginning « 
the process, at least, a temperature mg«*- 
than that of 212° F. is required, the VM| 
bath cannot be employed, and in tos 
sence of this limiting device the pw»y 
usually "scorched."" When the «£ggj 
under pressure can be used this ooj 
does not apply. But the boiling F Qf 
requires from 3 to 4 hours, witn J» ^ 
less attention, while the prec p ^ m 
method does not take over ha if a to ob . 
Besides, true litharge is drf hc ^ ice un- 
tain, and any other kind will pro 
satisfactory results, mnloy efl! 
The following is the process em? * 
Lead oleate (Emplastrum P Iura 
Soap, granular and ls 

dried £ ar ts 

Lend acetate J, -j n t qua 11 " 

Distilled ^ater, a sutficien 
tity. 




■Dissolve the soap m 350 parts hot 
jelled water and strain the solution. 
S- live the lead acetate in 250 parts 
£ Sled water and filter the solution 
hot into the warm soap solution, 
$Xg constantly- When the precipi- 
£te which has formed has separated, 
Scant the liquid and wash the precipi- 
tate thoroughly with hot water Remove 
the precipitate, let it drain, free from 
water completely by kneading it on a warm 
ckb form it into rolls, wrap in paraffine 
paper, and preserve in tightly closed con- 
tainers. 

Emplastrum adhesivum: 
Rubber, cut in small 

pieces 20 parts 

Petrolatum 20 parts 

Lead plaster 960 parts 

Melt the rubber at a temperature not 
exceeding 502° F., add the petrolatum, 
and continue the heat until the rubber 
is dissolved. Add the lead plaster to 
tbe hot mixture, continue the heat until 
it becomes liquid; then let it cool and 
stir until it stiffens. 

Court Plaster or Sticking Plaster.— I. 
— Brush silk over with a solution of isin- 
glass, in spirits or warm water, dry and 
repeat several times. For the last ap- 
plication apply several coats of balsam 
of Peru. This is used to close cuts or 
wounds, by warming and applying it. 
It does not wash off until the skin par- 
tially heals. 

II. — Isinglass, 1 part; water, 10 parts; 
dissolve, strain the solution, and gradu- 
ally add to it of tincture of benzoin, 2 
parts; apply this mixture gently warmed, 
by means of a camel's-hair brush, to the 
surface of silk or sarcenet, stretched on a 
frame, and allow each coating to dry 
before applying the next one, the appli- 
cation being repeated as often as neces- 
sary; lastly, give the prepared surface a 
coating of tincture of benzoin or tincture 
of balsam of Peru. Some manufacturers 
apply this to the unprepared side of the 
plaster, and others add to the tincture 
a few drops of essence of ambergris or 
essence of musk. 

III. (Deschamps). — A piece of fine 
ttuslin, linen, or silk is fastened to a flat 
board, and a thin coating of smooth, 
stramed flour paste is given to it; over 
this, when dry, two coats of colorless 
gelatin, made into size with water, 
Quantity sufficient, are applied warm, 
kaid to be superior to the ordinary court 
plaster. 

Coloring of Modeling Plaster. — I. — If 
Burnt gypsum is stirred uo with water con- 



taining formaldehyde and with a little 
alkali, and the quantity of water necessary 
tor the induration of the plaster contain- 
ing in 3 ? lutl0n a reducible metallic salt is 
added thereto, a plaster mass of perfectly 
uniform coloring is obtained. The hard- 
ening of the plaster is not affected there- 
by. According to the concentration of 
the metallic salt solutions and the choice 
of the salts, the most varying shades of 
color, as black, red, brown, violet, pearl 
gray, and bronze may be produced. 
The color effect may be enhanced by 
the addition of certain colors. For the 
production of a gray-colored gypsum 
mass, for example, the mode of pro- 
cedure is as follows: Stir 15 drachms of 
plaster with one-fourth its weight of 
water, containing a few drops of formal- 
dehyde and a little soda lye and add 10 
drops of a one-tenth normal silver solu- 
tion, which has previously been mixed 
with the amount of water necessary for 
hardening the gypsum. The mass will 
immediately upon mixing assume a 
pearl-gray shade, uniform throughout. 
In order to produce red or copper-like, 
black or bronze-like shades, gold salts, 
copper salts or silver salts, bismuth 
salts or lead salts, singly or mixed, are 
used. Naturally, these colorings admit 
of a large number of modifications. In 
lieu of formaldehyde other reducing 
agents may be employed, such as solu- 
tions of sulphurous acid or hydrogen 
peroxide with a little alkali. Metals in 
the elementary state may likewise be 
made use of, e. g., iron, which, stirred 
with a little copper solution and plaster, 
produces a brown mass excelling in 
special hardness, etc. This process of 
coloring plaster is distinguished from the 
former methods in that the coloration is 
caused by metals in the nascent state and 
that a very fine division is obtained. J- ne 
advantage of the dyeing method consists 
in that colorings can be produced with 
slieht quantities of a salt; besides, the 
fine contours of the figures are in no way 
affected by this manner of co ormg, and 
another notab e advantage lies in the 
mass being colored througW, whereby 
Tgreat durability of the color again 
outside actions is assured. 1 hus a peei 
inff off of the color or other way of be- 
coming detached, such as by rubbing off, 
is entirely excluded. obtain 
II. frequently, in order to obtain 
colored plaster ob acts, ochg or pow 

Ster/blotehes appear, fiere is a more 



PLASTEH 



■ . -R/m"1 brazil wood, log- 
certain recipe: Bml bra ^ 

wood, or X e "^Xr or use extracts of the 

*° tb f dC When t be dvc is cold mix it with 

the plaster. 1 * i« ay may 

£ pla^r articles, medal, 
aUojmmersetiiep s lhl , y 

Ee ^lSly pr^tered surface first 

T • = without any coating for about 

TdT, th n it is coited wi& a mixture 

oMO oarts water and 10 parts ammonia 
of so pans w* water kave 

SSf SS e atT foT a day, paint it again 
and St until the cement has taken on 
a uniform gray color which takes place 
as a rule in 12 to 14 days. J- hen prime 
the surface thus obtained with pure var- 
nish and finish the coating, after drying, 
with ordinary varnish paint or turpentine 
paint. 

Plaster for Foundry Models. — Gum 
lac, 1 part; wood spirit, 2 parts; lamp- 
black in sufficient quantity to dye. 

Plaster from Spent Gas Lime.— -Spent 
lime from gas purifiers, in which the sul- 
phur has been converted into calcium 
sulphate, by exposure to weather, if 

na/>aoDqTTT id mrvoH Trrifli u ir 1*1 



neeessary, is mixed with clay rich in 
alumina. The mixture is powdered, 
formed into balls or blocks with water, 
and calcined at a temperature below 
that at which the setting qualities of cal- 
cium sulphate are destroyed. Slaked 
lime, clay, and sand are added to the 
calcined product, and the whole is finely 
powdered. 

Plaster Mold. — Nearly all fine grad 
of metals can be cast in plaster mold 



ilV^l.J mil. LLil^ gLtlUQ 

— can be cast in plaster molds, 

provided only a few pieces of the cast- 
ings are wanted. Dental plaster should 
be used, with about one-half of short 
asbestos. Mix the two well together, 



contract a yellow-gray color, of uimle.. 
ant appearance, ,1-lere is a Dran+O 



Practical 



wntawo. lilt 

and when the mold is complete let it dry 
m a warm place for several days, or until 
au the moisture is excluded. If the mold 
is of considerable thickness it will answer 

castinT P ?r b f ter " When read y for 
warmed, and smoked over a gas light- 

cool a 5 T^ 1 ? h ° uld be £ » as 

a sta te as it will run. 

PlSte?^ ? f S ^^ttes and Other 

l«s aS ^ P lastfi V°bjects, more or 

f our dwellings. They rapidly 



Lib ,JJ KIT . "~ H'ilCti 

method for restoring the whiten M . 
Take finely powdered starch, qu ^ : 
white, and make a thick paste with W 
water. Apply, when still hot, with a 
flexible spatula or a brush on the plasty 
object. The layer should be quite thief 
Let it dry slowly. On drying t £ 
starch will split and scale off. £.11 th 
soiled parts of the plaster will adhere 
and be drawn off with the scales. Xhw 
method of cleaning does not detract fr ora 
the fineness of the model. 

Hardening and Toughening Plaster 
of Paris. — I. — Tlaster of Paris at times 
sets too rapidly; therefore the following 
recipe for toughening and delaying dry- 
ing will be useful. To calcined plaster 
of Paris add 4 per cent of its weight of 
powdered marsh mallow root, which will 
keep it from setting for about an hour, 
ami augment its hardness when set, or 
double the quantity of marshmahW 
root powder, and the plaster will become 
very firm, and may be worked 2 or 3 
hours after mixing, and may be carved 
and polished when hard. It is essential 
that these powders, which are of different 
densities and specific gravities, should be 
thoroughly mixed, and the plaster of 
Paris be quite fresh, and it must be 
passed through fine hair sieves to ensure 
its being an impalpable powder. To 
ensure thorough mixing, pass the com- 
bined powders through the hair sieve 
three times. Make up with water suffi- 
cient for the required model or models. 
Should any of the powder be left over it 
may be kept by being put in an wr-tqjM 
box and placed" in a warm room. 

The marshmallow root powder ma> 
be replaced by dextrin, gum a rab M 
glue. The material treated is nnfrWJ 
while yet in a soft state, for rolling, gi» s 
tube developing, making plates, etc. 

II.— Plaster of Paris may be 
set more quickly if some alum ot 



set more quickly if some aU 1 j -;«« it 
solved in the water used for renders » d 
If the gypsum is first *o«*J* 
solution of alum and then 



plastic 
with a 



if the gypsum i**-t^28i 
with a solution of alum and tiiu ^ 
burned, the resulting compound s b ] e , 
quickly and becomes as hard as • ^ 
Borax may be similarly employ.., • 



The 

liorax may oe similarly ^'TSl, a.s°' u " 
objects may also be be t»W* bee n 
tion of caustic baryta. But it ^ 
found that no matter how deep 
etrates, the baryta is agaij flrate r 
toward the surface when u>« ofl 
evaporates, a portion effioresei ^ ia iiiiiig 
outside, and only a thin layer re rer te (I 
in the outer shell, where Bfime ^ 
into carbonate. This at the s* 



I 



PLASTER— PLATING 



565 



S' 



„n the pores, rendering it impos- 
ing i*repe£ the operation. It was 
slbl fn„nrf that the whole mass of the 
lat f S be hardened by applying to it 
ca #*f rU sh made of glass bristles, a hot 
i V « of baryta. To prevent sepa- 
ration or c j[ talIized baryta at the 

rdt Tl, the object must be raised to a 
L U ± atu e of 140° to 175° F .To pro- 
«Iood results, however, it is neces- 
dU tn add to the plaster before casting 
£L£ subsSices with which the baryta 
Combine. These are silicic acid in 
Tm form, or the sulphates of. zinc, 
- l s ;„m copper, iron, aluminum, 
Sf n wSh'some P of 'these the resulting 
.-1 1 a s it , Sj how- 



obiect may be colored. 
?vcr difficult to insure the production of 
ulif'orm tint, it is better when employing 
salts producing color, to mix the plaster 
with about 5 per cent of quicklime, or 
better to render it plastic with milk of 
lime, 'and then to soak the object m a 
solution of metallic sulphate. 

Preservation of Plaster Casts.— Upon 
complete drying, small objects are laid 
for a short while in celluloid varnish of 4 
per cent, while large articles are painted 
with it, from the top downward, using a 
soft brush. Articles set up outside and 
exposed to the weather are not protected 
by this treatment, while others can be 
readily washed off and cleaned with 
water! To cover 100 square feet of 
surface, If pints of celluloid varnish are 
required. 

To Arrest the Setting of Plaster of 
Paris. — Citric acid will delay the setting 
of plaster of Paris for several hours. One 
ounce of acid, at a cost of about 5 cents, 
will be sufficient to delay the setting of 
100 pounds of plaster of Paris for % or 3 
hours. Dissolve the acid in the water 
before mixing the plaster. 

Weatherproofing Casts. — I. — Bre- 

thauer's method of preparing plaster of 
Paris casts for resisting the action of the 
weather is as follows: Slake 1 part of 
finely pulverized lime to a paste, then mix 
gypsum with hmewater and intimately 
mix both. Prom the compound thus 
prepared the figures are cast. When 
perfectly dry they are painted with hot 
hnseed oil, repeating the operation sev- 
eral times, then with linseed-oil varnish, 
and finally with white oil paint. Stat- 
ues, etc., prepared in this way have been 
constantly exposed to the action of the 
"weather for 4 years without suffering any 
change, 

II- — Jacobsen prepares casts which 
detain no dust, and can be washed with 



lukewarm soap water by immersing 
them or throwing upon them in a fine 
spray a hot solution of a soap prepared 
from stearic acid and soda lye in ten 
times its quantity, by weight, of hot 
water. 

Reproduction of Plaster Originals. — 

This new process consists in making a 
plaster mold over the original in the 
usual manner. After the solidification 
of the plaster the mass of the original is 
removed, as usual, by cutting out and 
rinsing out. The casting mold thus 
obtained is next filled out with a ceramic 
mass consisting of gypsum, 1 part; pow- 
dered porcelain, 5 parts; and flux, 1 part. 
After the mass has hardened it is baked 
in the mold. This renders the latter 
brittle and it falls apart on moistening 
with water while the infusion remains as 
a firm body, which presents all the de- 
tails of the original in a true manner. 

PLASTIC WOOD: 

Xylol 1 quart 

Acetone 1% pints 

Ethyl acetate 1 pint 

Castor oil 6 drams 

Celluloid 1% pounds _ 

avoirdupois 

Wood flour Enough 

Mix first three items, add castor oil 
and the celluloid, allow the celluloid to 
dissolve. Then add enough wood flour to 
make a thick paste. If too thick then 
thin with xylol. Keep solvents away 
from open flame as they are very inflam- 
mable. Keep in cans, so as not to 
evaporate. T . . 

When plastic wood has been kept tor 
a long time it hardens. To soften it 
again add a little acetone and replace 
cover on can. 



Plating 



Tb^ nlating of metal surfaces is ac- 
Th f..t? la i l ?*f 0ur different ways: .(1) 
usually involving dii 
i;! :ul ,cid bath; (2) by electrodepositiom 



complisned in 



in an acid batn, \&) « metallic s~ 
Mu^an^^ 
pSed;( 3 ) by apply ng a ff*** n 
1 ■ as bj; byrnmg m; H) P ,. 

on m 



}iXed o»atmgmeUlandro^ 



nvenienae the methods of plating are 
„, bitrarily classif 
lowing headings: 

1. Bronzing- 
g. Coloring of Metals. 
8. Electro&positio* ' «gj?"f " 
4. Gilding and Gold- Hating. 



666 



PLATING 



0 Tinned Lead-Plating. 
10" Various Recipes. 

BRONZING: , 

a t+ Pronzes —These are bronzes ol 

operator. . 

1 —After imparting to an object a 
coaimg of vert antique, it as brushed to 
the verdigris, and another coat 
is applied with tie following mixture: 
Vinegar, 1,000 parts, by weight; pow- 
dVrel bloodstone 1 ; 125 parts by weight: 
plumbago, 25 parts, by weight iimsh 
with a waxed brush and a coat of white 
varnish. 

jl Cover the object with a mixture 

of vinegar, 1,000 parts, by weight; pow- 
dered bloodstone, 125 parts, by weight; 
plumbago, 25 parts, by weight; sal am- 
moniac, 32 parts, by weight; ammonia, 
32 parts, by weight; sea salt, 82 parts, by 
weight. Finish as above. 

Antique Bronzes. — In order to give 
new bronze castings the appearance and 
patina of old bronze, various composi- 
tions are employed, of which the follow- 
ing are the principal ones: 

I. — Vert Antique: Vinegar, 1,000 
parts, by weight; copper sulphate, 16 
parts, by weight; sea salt, 32 parts, by 
weight; sal ammoniac, 32 parts, by 
weight; mountain green (Sanders green), 
70 parts, by weight; chrome yellow, 30 
parts, by weight; ammonia, 32 parts, by 
weight. J 

II. — Vert Antique: Vinegar, 1,000 
parts, by weight; copper sulphate, 16 
parts by weight; sea salt, 32 parts, by 
weight; sal ammoniac, 32 parts, by 
wSfte mo ^aiii green, 70 parts, by 
weight; ammonia, 32 parts, by weight. 

III. — Dark Vert Antique: To obtain 
*>ago to the preceding mixtures. 

IV. — Vinegar, 1,000 parts bv wpiVni- 

cold solution nn 1 and S reas e> into a 
PwmanS^L 10 P arts °* potassium 

parts of water Tl\ l0nC add * in L0OO 
fren withdraw" rt« r % main , 3 0 seconds; 
soft Sawdl , st ' \f \l oS > *- n ? d 7 » Ane 
W the articles have be- 



come too dark, or if a reddish-hrr, 
color be desired, immerse for 11 



minute into a warm (60° C, or u 0O U U 
solution of chromic acid, 10 parts- V 
drochlonc acid, 10 parts; potassium p 



manganate, 10 parts; iron sulphate ^ 
parts; water, 1,000 parts. Treat as Y° 
fore. If the latter solution alone T 
used the product will be a brighter &J& 
yellow or reddish-brown color. By he t 
ing in a drying oven the tone of th 
colors is improved. ae 
II.— Rouge, with a little chloride of 
platinum and water, will form a ehoco 
fate brown of considerable depth of tone 
and is exceedingly applicable to brass 
surfaces which are to resemble a copp et 
bronze. 

Copper Bronzing. — I . — After cleaning 
the pieces, a mixture made as follows ia 
passed over them with a brush: Castor 
oil, 20 parts; alcohol, 80 parts; soft 
soap, 40 parts; water, 40 parts. The day 
after application, the piece has become 
bronzed; and if the time is prolonged, 
the tint will change. Thus, an affinity 
of shades agreeable to the eye can be 
procured. The piece is dried in hot saw- 
dust, and colorless varnish with large ad- 
dition of alcohol is passed over it. This 
formula for bronzing galvanic apparatus 
imparts any shade desired, from Bar- 
bodienne bronze to antique green, pro- 
vided the liquid remains for some time 
in contact with the copper. 

II. — Acetate of copper, 6 parts; sal 
ammoniac, 7 parts; acetic acid, 1 part; 
distilled water, 100 parts. Dissolve a I 
in water in an earthen or porcelain vessel. 
Place on the fire and heat slightly; warn 
with a brush give the objects to M 
bronzed 2 or 3 coats, according to tne 
shade desired. It is necessary that eacn 
coat be thoroughly dry before appW 
another. 

Bronzing of Gas Fixtures.— G as 
tures which have become dirty or 
nished from use may_ be i^F ro If on 2e 
appearance by painting with W . ^ 
paint and then, if a still belter figj J 
required, varnishing after }P e ? i orc d 
thoroughly dry with some light- w . 
varnish that will give a hard ana m 
coating. ^tb 

If the bronze paint is made U P m e 
ordinary varnish it is liable Jl&V be 
discolored from acid winch ^d 
present in the varnish. One - x the 
proposed for obviating this is to ' ^ e of 
varmsh with about 5 times its vo - xl]} re 
spirit of turpentine, add to tne ■ 0 { 
dried slaked lime in the P r °P f °A e *ell. 
about 40 grains to the pint, 



PLATING 



567 



„ Q tmf? the agitation several times, and 
^ eP a 1fv "Bowing the suspended matter to 
and decanting the clear liquid. 
T he obTect of this is, of course, to neu- 
any acid which may be present. 
To determine how effectively this has 
been clone, the varnish may be chem- 
ically tested. 

t ~ TirnnzinE. — I. — The surface ot a 
JiS B p3j cleaned and polished 
f s evelly painted with a vegetable oil, 
i T o We oil, and then well heated, care 
befnff taken that the temperature docs 
not nse to a point at winch the oil will 
h„rn The cast iron absorbs oxygen at 
the moment when the decomposition of 
the oil begins, and a brown layer of oxide 
[ formed which adheres firmly to the 
surface and which may be vigorously 
polished, giving a bronze-like appearance 
to the surface of the iron. 

jl To give polished iron the ap- 
pearance of bronze commence by clean- 
W the objects, then subject them for 
about 5 minutes to the vapor of a mix- 
ture of concentrated hydrochloric and 
nitric acids; then smear them with vase- 
line and heat them until the vaseline be- 
gins to decompose. The result is a, fine 
bronzing. 

Liquid for Bronze Powder.— Take 2 
ounces gum animi and dissolve in 1 pint 
linseed oil by adding gradually while the 
oil is being heated. Boil, strain, and 
dilute with turpentine. 

Bronzing Metals. — I. — The following 
composition is recommended for bronz- 
ing metal objects exposed to the air: 
Mix about equal parts of siccative, recti- 
fied oil of turpentine, caoutchouc oil, and 
dammar varnish, and apply this com- 
position on the objects, using a brush. 
This bronze has been found to resist the 
influences of the weather. 

II. — Cover the objects with a light layer 
of linseed oil, and then heat over a coal 
fire, prolonging the heat until the de- 
sired shade is reached. 

III. — Expose the objects to be bronzed 
for about 5 minutes to the vapors of a 
bath composed of 50 parts of nitric acid 
and 50 parts of concentrated hydro- 
chloric acid. Then rub the articles with 
vaseline and heat until the vaseline is 
decomposed. The objects to be bronzed 
must always be perfectly polished. 

IV. — To bronze iron articles they 
Bhould be laid in highly heated coal dust; 
the articles must be covered up in the 
glowing dust, and the heat must be the 
same throughout. The iron turns at 



first yellow, then blue, and finally rather 
black. Withdraw the objects when they 
have attained the blue shade or the black 
color; then while they are still hot, rub 
them with a wad charged with tallow. 

V. — For electrolytic bronzing of 
metals the baths employed differ from 
the brass baths only in that they contain 
tin in solution instead of zinc. Accord- 
ing to Eisner, dissolve 70 parts, by 
weight, of cupric sulphate in 1,000 parts 
of water and add a solution of 8 parts of 
stannic chloride in caustic lye. For a 
positive pole plate put in a bronze plate. 
The bath works at ordinary tempera- 
ture. 

VI. — A good bath consists of 10 parts 
of potash, % parts of cupric chloride, 1 
part of tin salt, 1 part of cyanide of potas- 
sium dissolved in 100 parts of water. 

VII. — Mix a solution of 3& parts of 
copper sulphate in 500 parts of water 
with 64 parts of cyanide of potassium. 
After the solution has become clear, add 
4 to 5 parts of stannic chloride dissolved 
in potash lye. 

VIII. — Precipitate all soda from a 
solution of blue vitriol by phosphate of 
sodium, wash the precipitate well, and 
dissolve in a concentrated solution of 
pyrophosphate of copper. Also, satu- 
rate a solution of the same salt with tin 
salt. Of both solutions add enough m 
such proportion to a solution of 50 parts, 
by weight, of pyrophosphate of sodium in 
liOOO parts of water until the solution 
appears clear and of the desired color. 
A cast bronze plate serves as an anode 
From time to time a little soda, or it the 
precipitate turns out too pale, copper so- 
lution should be added. 

Tin Bronzing.— The pieces are well 
washed and all grease removed: next 
plunged into a solution of copperas 
^een vitriol), 1 part; sulphate 1 ^part, 

polish with English red. 

Zinc Bronzing.-The zinc article ,niujt 
be first electro-coppered beforcjroceec 

iU Kever, too numerous to eove a of 



PLATING 



.-oh is applied; next, before the 
spirit varnish is ap p m , poW dered 

varnish is P er 'S e £ powdered bronze 

SS&og f e tix'greel sand's with 
green bronze with spirit m 

chrome ye low «irrea *\ ^ e n the 
Ihich a little varmsh is put. ^ 

bronzing is dry, ™ ^ desC ribed. 
the Powered bronze as above & 

After all has dried, pass ; the D d 

iece 0 f wax, then or er t* e 
article, being careful to charge m 
frequently with wax. 

COLORING OF METALS: 

Direct Coloration of Iron and Steel by 
rnnriTselenite.— Iron precipitates cop- 
Ser P and selenium from their salt, Im- 
mersed in a solution of cupnc selenite, 
m dulated with a few drops o nitric acid, 
precipitates these two metals on its sur- 
faced the form of a dull black deposit 
but slightly adherent. But, if the object 
is washed with water, then with alcohol, 
and rapidly dried over a gas burner, the 
deposit becomes adherent. It rubbed 
with a cloth, this deposit turns a blue 
black or a brilliant black, according to 
the composition of the bath. 

The selenite of copper is a greenish 
salt insoluble in water, and but slightly 
soluble in water acidulated with nitric or 
sulphuric acid. It is preferable to mix a 
solution of cupric sulphate with a solu- 
tion of selenions acid, and to acidulate 
with nitric acid, in order to prevent the 
precipitation of the selenite of copper. 

This^ process, originated by Paul Mal- 
herbe, is quite convenient for blackening 
or bluing small objects of iron or steel, 
such as metallic pens or other small 
pieces. It does not succeed so well for 
objects of cast iron; and the selenious 
acid is costly, which is an obstacle to its 
employment on large metallic surfaces. 

The baths are quickly impoverished, 
tor insoluble yellow selenite of iron is 
deposited. 

Brilliant Black Coloration.— Selenious 
acid, 6 parts; cupric sulphate, 10 parts: 

Sis i?i 00 , pa ^ : nitr!c add > 4 to 6 p^- 

Blue-Black Coloration.— Selenious I acid, 
1 1 tiro r * s 5 cu P" c sulphate, 10 parts; water 
1,000 parts ; nitric acid, 4 to 6 parts 

time y th?f er f Shlg ^ ob -l" ect for a sh°rt 
S3 in , TfaCe - ° f thc metal ca » ^ col- 

Cupt' Snite °°W and Br f ? S 
copper .~T When an object of 

of Senfte 0 F ? imme ™«Hn a solution 
m of copper acidulated with 



nitric acid, the following colors are ^ 

the 

violet, and i bl u^ which' is T the last^t 



tained, according to the time of th e 



mersion: Yellow, orange, rose, purT ,, 
violet, and blue, which is the last 
which can be obtained. In g etleral g 
solution should be slightly acid; 0 tW 
wise the color is fugacious and punctat 



6.5 



Selenious acid 
Sulphate of 

copper 12.5 

Nitric acid S.O 

Water 1,000.0 



2.9 



parts 



on 



20.0 paru 
2 - 5 Parts 

Looo-o part5 

Production of Rainbow Colors 
Metals (iron, copper, brass, zinc, etc V 
I. — The following process of irisation 
is due to Puscher. It allows of covering 
the metals with a thick layer of metallic 
sulphide, similar to that met with in na- 
ture — in galena, for example. 

These compounds arc quite solid and 
are not attacked by concentrated acids 
and alkalies, while dilute reagents are 
without action. In 5 minutes thousands 
of objects of brass can be colored with 
the brightest hues. If they have been 
previously cleaned chemically, the colors 
deposited on the surface adhere with such 
strength that they can be worked with 
the, burnisher. 

Forty-five parts of sodium hyposulphite 
are dissolved in 500 parts of water; a 
solution of 15 parts of neutral acetate of 
lead in 500 parts of water is poured in. 
The clear mixture, which is composed of 
a double salt of hyposulphite of lead and 
of sodium, possesses, when heated to $W 
P., the property of decomposing si Wl y 
and of depositing brown hakes oi lead 
sulphide. If an article of gold, silver, 
copper, brass, tombac, iron, or zinc J 
put into this bath while thc precipitation 
is taking place, the object will be covereu 
with a film of lead sulphide, which W« 
give varied and brilliant colors, accoranj 
to its thickness. For a uniform coK»| 
tion, it is necessary that the pieces 
be heated quite uniformly. H y fc qJJ ^ 
iron assumes under this treatme ^ 
a blue color, and zinc a bronze 
On articles of copper the first goia ^ 
which appears is defective. l je ' 
tin are not. colored. ■ ace t<ite 

By substituting for the neutral . • ^ 
of lead an equal quantity ot cup ^ 
phate and proceeding in a sim ~J ^jS 
brass or imitation gold is cover - aJI 
a very beautiful red, succeede 
imperfect green, and finally a _ . pts of 
cent brown, with iridescent .P. fairly 
greenish red. The latter coating 
permanent. . t ; 0 p, 

Zinc is not colored in this sol aw 



PLATING 



569 



nrecipitates in it a quantity of flakes of 
SSsh brown (cupric sulphide), but if 
Rout one-third of the preceding so- 
i *■ « nf lead acetate is added, a solid 
color S developed, which, when 
with a light coatinj of wax, 
S much in intensity an L solidity, 
ft is also useful to apply a slight coating 
of wax to the other colors. 

ir —Ueautif ul designs may be ob- 
tained, imitating, marble with sheets of 
^nner plunged into a solution of lead, 
tokened by the addition of gum traga- 
ca th and Seated to 212° F. After- 
wards they are treated with the ordinary 
lead solution. The compounds of an- 
timony, for example the tartrate of anti- 
mony and potash, afford similar co ora- 
tions but require a longer time for their 
development. The solutions mentioned 
do not change, even after a long period, 
and may be employed several times. 

HI By mixing a solution of cupric 

sulphate with a solution of sodium hypo- 
sulphite, a double hyposulphite of sodi- 
um and of copper is obtained. 

If in the solution of this double salt an 
article of nickel or of copper, cleaned 
with nitric acid, then with soda, is im- 
mersed, the following colors will appear 
in a few seconds: Brilliant red, green, 
rose, blue, and violet. To isolate a color, 
it is sufficient to take out the object and 
wash it with water. The colors obtained 
on nickel present a moire appearance, 
similar to that, of silk fabrics. 

IV. — Tin sulphate affords with so- 
dium hyposulphite a double salt, which 
is reduced by heat, with production of tin 
sulphide. The action of this double 
salt on metallic surfaces is the same as 
that of the double salts of copper and 
lead. Mixed with a solution of cupric 
sulphate, all the colors of the spectrum 
will be readily obtained. 

V. — Coloration of Silver. — The ob- 
jects of copper or brass are first covered 
with a layer of silver, when they are 
dipped in the following solution at the 
temperature of 205° to 212° F.: Water, 
3,000 parts; sodium hyposulphite, 300 
parts; lead acetate, 100 parts. 
, VI. — Iron precipitates bismuth from 
its chlorhydne solution. On heating 
this deposit, the colors of the rainbow 
are obtained. 

Coloration by Electrolysis. — I. — Col- 
ored Rings by Electrolysis (Nobili, Bec- 
querel). — In order to obtain the Nobili 
rings it is necessary to concentrate the 
current coming from one of the poles of 
the battery through a platinum wire, 



whose point alone is immersed in the 
liquid to be decomposed, while the other 
pole is connected with a plate of metal 
in the same liquid. This plate is placed 
perpendicularly to the direction of the 
wire, and at about 0.04 inches from the 
point. 

Solutions of sulphate of copper, sul- 
phate of zinc, sulphate of manganese, ace- 
tate of lead, acetate of copper, acetate 
of potassium, tartrate of antimony and 
potash, phosphoric acid, oxalic acid, 
carbonate of soda, chloride of manga- 
nese, and manganous acetate, may be em- 
ployed. 

II. — A process, due to M. O. Mathey, 
allows of coloring metals by precipitating 
on their surface a transparent metallic 
peroxide. The phenomenon of electro- 
chemical coloration on metals is the 
same as that which takes place when an 
object of polished steel is exposed to 
heat. It first assumes a yellow color, 
from a very thin coating of ferric oxide 
formed on its surface. By continuing 
the heating, this coating of oxide in- 
creases in thickness, and appears red, 
then violet, then blue. Here, the color- 
ation is due to the increase in the thick- 
ness of a thin coating of a metallic oxide 
precipitated by an alkaline solution. . 

The oxides of lead, tin, zinc, chromium, 
aluminum, molybdenum, tungsten, etc., 
dissolved in potash, may be employed; 
also protoxide of iron, zinc, cadmium, 
cobalt, dissolved in ammonia. 

Lead Solution.—Potash, 400 paTts; 
litharge or massicot, 125 parts. Boil 10 
minutes, filter, dilute until the solution 
marks 25° Be. 

Iron Solution— Dissolve ferrous sul- 
phate in boiling, water and preserve 
sheltered from air. . When desired for 
use pour a quantity into a vessel and add 
ammonia until the precipitate is redis- 
solved This solution, oxidizing rapidly 
in the air, cannot be used for more than 
an hour. 

TIT —Electro-chemical coloration sue- 
reeds 'very well on metals which are not 
SdfJbfe 7 such as gold and p atmum 

h J^\XrZlt£; waTc^hKJ 
sSews The object is placed at he pos- 
itive pole, under a thickness.of U inches 
Sf the liquid, and the nega f « dgtrode 
is brought to the surface of the batn in 
a few seconds all the ^lors possible are 
obtained. Generally, a ruby-red tint is 

S Tv. -Coloration, of Nickel -The 
:„W niece is placed at the positive pole 
n,C ^t?utSn oFlead acetate. A netting 



in 



570 

• ~e \<s arranged at the nega- 
of copper *S ^contours of the 

tive pole a ^ d a m s i*rt distance from the 
design, *"data obtained ^ U ni- 

? bjeCt -> Z distance of the copper wires 

sulphydrate, or of hydrogen sulphide. 



PLATING 



ft —The brass is immersed in a dilute 
lolntion of mercurous nitrate; the^aye 
of mercury formed on the brass is con 
verSd into black sulphide if washed 
several times in potassium sulphide. By 
Substituting for the potassium sulphide 
the sulphide of antimony or that or ar- 
senic, beautiful bronze colors are ob- 
tained, varying from light brown to dark 
brown. 

Ill— Clean the brass perfectly. Af- 
terwards rub with sal ammoniac dissolved 
in vinegar. Strong vinegar, 1,000 parts; 
sal ammoniac, 30 parts; alum, 15 parts; 
arsenious anhydride, 8 parts. 

IV. — A solution of chloride of plati- 
num is employed, which leaves a very 
light coating of platinum on the metal, 
and the surface is bronzed. A steel tint 
or gray color is obtained, of which the 
shade depends on the mer,al. If this is 
burnished, it takes a blue or steel gray 
shade, which varies with the duration of 
the chemical action, the concentration, 
and the temperature of the bath. A 
dilute solution of platinum is prepared 
thus: Chloride of platinum, 1 part; water, 
5,000 parts. 

Another solution, more concentrated 
j ^perature of 104-° F., is kept 
£ j 6 ob i ects t0 be bronzed are 
attached to a copper wire and immersed 
iZS «JT sec ™ds in a hot solution of 
tartar, SO parts to 5,000 parts of water. 

Ind * f,V? 3 tim ?l with ordinary water, 
S/dt . the iU sol ^on of platinum 
When ' ^ h ° m tim ^ to time ' 

^ coZlZt\ a G are P assed to 

chloride (U? te Vh ,U ^ n ° f P ,ati ™™ 
*.i..i iae .^0 )■ They are stirred, and 



taken nut mU' . i D t»reu, ana 

Cii TL wlshed l or color has 

« or 3 time ■% * rc then cashed 
wmea, and dned m wood sawdust. 



V. — To give to brass a dull black 
color, as that used for optical instruct J 
the metal is cleaned carefully at fu s -' 
and covered with a very dilute mi xtu ' 
of neutral nitrate of tin, 1 part; chloride 
of sold, 2 parts. At the end of iq jqC 
uteS this covering is removed with a 
moist brush. If an excess of acid ha, 
not been employed, the surface of 
metal will be found to be of a fine dull 
black. , . 

The nitrate of tin is prepared by d e . 
composing the chloride of this metal 
with ammonia and afterwards dissolving 
in nitric acid the oxide of tin formed. 

VI. — For obtaining a deposit of his. 
muth the brass is immersed in a boiling 
bath, prepared by adding 50 to GO parts of 
bismuth to nitric acid diluted with 1,000 
parts of water, and containing 3a parts 
of tartaric acid. 

VII. — The electrolysis of a cold solu- 
tion of 25 to 30 parts per 1,000 parts of 
the double chloride of bismuth and am- 
monium produces on brass or on copper 
a brilliant adherent deposit of bismuth, 
whose appearance resembles that of old 
silver. 

Production of E.ainbow Hues. — Var- 
ious colors. — 1. — Dissolve tartrate of 
antimony and of potash, 30 parts; tar- 
taric acid, 30 parts; water, 1,000 parts. 
Add hydrochloric acid, 90 to 120 parts; 
pulverized antimony, 90 to 120 parts. 
Immerse the object of brass in this boil- 
ing liquid, and it will be covered with a 
film, which, as it thickens, reflects quite a 
series of beautiful tints, first appearing 
iridescent, then the color of gold, copper, 
or violet, and finally of a grayish m *: 
These colors are adherent, and do not 
change in the air. 

II.— The sulphide of tin maybe depos- 
ited on metallic surfaces, especially <g 
brass, communicating shades ^ ar -L ° 
with the thickness of the deposit, 
this purpose, Puscher prepares tne : i 
lowing solutions: Dissolve tartaro.^ 



0 parts, in water, 1,000_ P ar j|l <a par t s 



salt of tin, 20 parts; water, i*« J 
Boil the mixture, allow it to rep<>^ 
filter. Afterwards pour the deal jp° 
a little at a time, shaking coU ™ dai Sa 
into a solution of hvposulphite oj~ sll l- 
parts; water, 250 parts. On b0]l f t ' a hoii 
phide of tin is formed, with F^J^s of 
of sulphur. On plunging the P ver c4, 
brass in the liquid, they are ^jofli 
according to the period of in 
with varied shades, passing " 
ye now to red, to crimson, to 
finally to light brown. tl> e 
III. — The metal is treated w 



PLATING 



571 



following composition: Solution A.-— 

Cotton" well washed, 50 parts; salicylic 

iSVoarls, dissolved m sulphuric add, 

i nnf) carts, and bichromate of potash, 
1,000 parts, golution B ._ Brass> 20 

acid, density 1.51, 350 



100 p 

parts 



parts; nitric 



h . ; mtrate of soda 10 parts. Mix 
the two solutions, and dilute with 1,500 
These proportions may 
the nature of 
This prepara- 



X.— For obtaining rose-colored hues, 
then violet, then blue: Water, 400 parts^ 
cupric sulphate, 30 parts; sodium hypo 



arts; 

ate, au parts; sodium h Bj 
20 parts; cream of tartar,' 10 



nirts of water. It— 
It modified according to tlie nature of 
the brass to be treated, 
tion is spread on the metal, wkch im~ 
mediately changes color When the 
desired tint is obtained the piece is 
rt ,,i>klv plunged in an alkaline solution; 
fsodfsak 50 parts; water, 1,000 parts 
The article is afterwards washed, and 
dried with a piece of cloth. Beautiful 
red tin s are obtained by placing the 
objects between 2 plates, or better yet, 
3 pieces of iron wire-cloth. 

IY, Put in a flask 100 parts of cupric 

carbonate and 750 parts of ammonia and 
shake. This liquid should be kept in 
weil-stoppered bottles. When it has 
lost its strength, this may be renewed 
by pouring in a little ammonia. The 
objects to be colored should be well 
cleaned. They are suspended in the 
liquid and moved back and forth. After 
a few minutes of immersion, they are 
washed with water and dried in wood 
sawdust. Generally, a deep-blue color 
is obtained. 

V. — Plunge a sheet of perfectly clean 
brass in a dilute solution of neutral 
acetate of copper^ and at the ordinary 
temperature, and in a short time it will 
be found covered with a fine gold yellow. 

VI. — Immerse the brass several times 
in a very dilute solution of cupric chlo- 
ride, and the color will be deadened and 
bronzed a greenish gray. 

A plate of brass heated to302° F. is 
colored violet by rubbing its surface 
gently with cotton soaked with cupric 
chloride, 

YH-— On heating brass, perfectly 
polished, until it can be no longer held 
in the hand, and then covering it rapidly 
and uniformly with a solution of an- 
timony chloride by means of a wad of 
cotton, a fine violet tint is communi- 
cated. 

VIII. — For greenish shades, a bath 
may be made use of, composed of water, 
100 parts; cupric sulphate, 8 parts; sal 
ammoniac, 2 parts. 

IX. — For orange-brown and cinna- 
mon-brown shades: Water, 1,000 parts; 
potassium chlorate, 10 parts; cupric 
sulphate, 10 parts. 



sulphite, 
parts. 

XI. — For yellow, orange, or rose- 
colored shades, then blue, immerse the 
objects for a longer or shorter time in 
the following bath: Water, 400 parts; 
ammoniacal ferrous sulphate, 20 parts; 
sodium hyposulphite, 40 parts; euprie 
sulphite, 30 parts; cream of tartar, 10 
parts. _ By prolonging the boiling, the 
blue tint gives place to yellow, and 
finally to a fine gray. 

XII. — A yellowish brown may be ob- 
tained with water, 50 parts; potassium 
chlorate, 5 parts; nickel carbonate, % 
parts; sal nickel, 5 parts. 

XIII. — A dark brown is obtained 
with water, 50 parts; sal nickel, 10 parts; 
potassium chlorate, 5 parts. 

XIV. — A yellowish brown is obtained 
with water, 350 parts; a crystallized 
sodium salt, 10 parts; orpiment, 5 parts. 

XV. — Metallic moire is obtained by 
mixing two liquids: (a) Cream of tar- 
tar, .5 parts; cupric sulphate, 5 parts; 
water, 250 parts, (b) Water, 125 parts; 
sodium hyposulphite, 15 parts. 

XVI. — A beautiful color is formed 
with one of the following baths: (a) 
Water, 140 parts; ammonia, 5 parts; po- 
tassium sulphide, 1 part. (6) Water : 100 
parts; ammonium sulphydrate, 2 parts. 

Bronzing of Brass. — The object is 
boiled with zinc grains and water satu- 
rated with ammoniacal chlorhydrate. A 
little zinc chloride may be added to 
facilitate the operation, wh'*^ is com- 
pleted as above. 

It may also be terminated by plunging 
the object in the following solution; 
Water, 2,000 parts; vinegar, 100 parts; 
sal ammoniac, 475 parts; pulverized 
verdigris, 500 parts. 
ELECTRO-DEPOSITION PROCESSES. 

The electrodeposition process is tnat 
used in electroplating and dectrotyping. 
It consists in preparing a bath in which 
a metal salt is in solution the articles to 
be plated being suspended so that tney 
hanc in the solution, but are insulated. 
The g bath being provided with an anode 
and cathode for the passing of an elec- 
Sc current, and the article being con- 
nected with the cathode or negative 
poleTthe salts are deposited on its sur- 
face (on the unprotected parts of it. 
surface), and thus receive s . coating or 
plating of the metal in solution. 



receive 
ns of 



ovcf those parts; for 
de or 



is deposited upon a 

When f , SO nrThf Uerupo? a metal 
fcard metal or the ij t i 

softer than itsjl^ * not burnished 
Ihou d be poiisneu . deposited 

S^T^^rln tanL the g^nTto 
upon lead, tor w i . burnishing to 

J TC w hich » . reqjw Ugh wollld cause 
produce the necessary p ^ cq 

t P be softer metal to exj . ^ ls 
quently a f + e P a g^° t h e other hand, silver 
wo uld result. ^ n if the burni?her 
f> 6ing r/d " si've -coated steel the e f 
UfZ^ expand and sepa^te 

depS require to have portm 
their surfaces topped o 
deposit spreadin- 

must be coated with some kind of yar- 
Kri wax or fat, to prevent deposition, 
o in gildiS the inside of a cream jug 
which Ls been silvered on the outside, 
varnish must be applied all around the 
outer side of the edge, for the same 
reason. For gilding and other hot so- 
lutions, copal varnish is generally used; 
but for cold liquids and common work, 
an ordinary varnish, such as engravers 
use for similar purposes, will do very 
well. In the absence of other sub- 
stances, a solution of sealing wax, dis- 
solved in naphtha, may be employed. 

Plating of Aluminum. — The light 
metal may be plated with almost any 
other metal, but copper is most com- 
monly employed. Two formulas for cop- 
pering aluminum follow : 

I. — Make a bath of cupric sulphate, 
30 parts; cream of tartar, 30 parts; soda, 
25 parts; water, 1,000 parts. After well 
scouring the objects to be coppered, im- 
merse in the bath. The coppering may 
also be effected by means of the battery 
with the following mixture: Sodium phos- 
phate, 50 parts; potassium cyanide, 50 
parts; copper cyanide, 50 parts; distilled 
water, 1,000 parts. 

II. — First clean the aluminum in a 
war m solution of an alkaline carbonate, 
thus making lts surface rough and 
porous; next wash it thoroughly in run- 
!T£vK5& ^ d di P J it itlto a * ot solution 

^Tit p £t - agam in ^ iean Water > 



PLATING 

passed until a coating of cop Per , 
required thickness is obtained. * 

Brassing. — The folio winpr re- 
commended for the bath; ComJI 



rated s 1U a ? ome what concen- 



itil a 
farmed 



. metallic" deposit is 
ashed' and returned ffT thoio ^ly 

h *-te bath, 4 e n an el^ e - COPPer • 
» wnen an electric current is 



mg i. anis i s the D essolle 
or the galvanic applicatioa 3 
I he special advantage claimed 



tate, 50 parts, by weight; dry £L JK* 
ride, 25 parts, by weight; crystal; 0 : 
sodium sulphite, 250 parts, by 
ammonium carbonate, 35 p arts g ? » 
weight; potassium cyanide, 110 par L 5§ 
weight. Dissolve in 3,000 parts of W atS 

Coppering. — I. — This 
process foi 
copper. 

is that strong currents can be used an! 
a deposit obtained of 0.004 inch h\ u 
hours. After having cleaned the object 
to be coppered, with sand or in an acid 
bath, a first coat is deposited in an ordi- 
nary electrolytic bath; then the object is 
placed in a final bath, in which the elec- 
trolyte is projected on the electrode, so 
as to remove all bubbles of gas or other 
impurities tending to attach themselves 
to the surface. The electrolyte employed 
is simply a solution of cupric sulphate in 
very dilute sulphuric acid. For the pre- 
liminary bath the double cyanide of potas- 
sium and copper is made use of, 

II. — Those baths which contain cya- 
nide work best, and may be used for all 
metals. The amount of the latter must 
not form too large an excess. The ad- 
dition of a sulphide is very dangerous. 
It is of advantage that the final hath 
contain an excess of alkali, but only 
as ammonia or ammonium carbonate. 
For a copper salt the acetate is pref- 
erable. According to this, the so u .on 
A is prepared in the warm, and solution 
B is added with heating. Solution | 
Neutral copper acetate, 30 parts, j 
weight; crystallized sodium sulptute. 



parts, by weight; ammonium ^carr^ ^ 



te 
rbonate, 

5 parts,* by weight; water, 500 pa-_ 
weight. Solution B: PotMnuffl-Jjgj 
(98 to 99 per cent), 35 parte, by 
and water, 500 parts, by weignt- ^ 
Coppering Glass. — I.— Glass J*^ 
may be coated with copper uy ^ e 
lytic process, by simply varn^m b ^ 
outer surface of the vessel, an a j nJtfJ 
varnish is nearly dry, brush" V£ re is 
bago well over it, A conducting fjsCej 
then attached to the varnishea ^ ^. 
which may be conveniently J° n jW^ 
ploying a small piece of s° lteJ . e mpW 
percha or beeswax, taking care i |1Iljt eS 



the plumbago to the part w i 
the wire to the plumbagoed sui 

II.— Dissolve gutta percha ia 
of turpentine or benzine; aPP'£ p i a ceS t0 
the solution on the glass in tiie if 




PLATING 



57S 



MKe and place.in the electric 
bath The rubber solution is spread 
■iu a brush. 

Coppering Plaster Models, etc.-Bu.tg 
.^ffmilaf objects may be coated by 



8 ♦ Si hem with linseed oil, or bet- 
i: " ^ & then well blacklead- 
■ or treating them with phosphorous, 
X M g '? nnd eofd solutions, attaching a 
Sber of /uicling wires, connected with 
all the mosfhollow and distant parts and 
then immersing them m the sulphate of 
cooper solution and causing just suffi- 
cient copper to be deposited upon them, 
W the battery process, to protect them 
but not to obliterate the fine lines or 
features. , 

Coppering Zinc Plate.— The zrac plate 
should first be cleaned with highly di- 
luted hydrochloric acid and the acid 
completely removed with water. Then 
prepare an ammomacal copper solution 
from 3 parts copper sulphate, 3 parts 
spirits of sal ammoniac, and 50 parts 
water If possible the zinc articles are 
dipped into this solution or else the sur- 
face is coated a few times quickly and 
uniformly with a flat, soft brush, leaving 
to dry between the coats. When suffi- 
cient copper has precipitated on the zinc, 
brush off the object superficially. 

Cobaltizing of Metals. — Following are 
various processes for cobaltizing on cop- 
per or other metals previously coppered: 
— Cobalt, 50 parts, by weight; sal am- 
moniac, 25 parts; liquid ammonia, 15 
parts; distilled water, 1,000 parts. < Dis- 
solve the cobalt and the sal ammoniac m 
the distilled water, and add the liquid 
ammonia. 

II. — Pure potash in alcohol, 50 parts, 
by weight; cobalt chloride, 10 parts; 
distilled water, 1,000 parts. Dissolve 
the cobalt in half the distilled water and 
the potash in the other half and unite the 
two. 

III. — Potassium sulphocyanide, 13 
parts, by weight; cobalt chloride, 10 
parts; pure potash in alcohol, 2 parts; 
distilled water, 1,000 parts. Proceed as 
described above. All these baths are 
used hot and require a strong current. 

Tfickel Plating with the Battery. — The 
nickel bath is prepared according to the 
following formula: 

I. — Nickel and ammo- 
nium sulphate.. . 10 parts 

Boracic aeid 4 parts 

Distilled water .... 175 parts 
A sheet of nickel is used as an 



Perfect cleanliness of the surface to be 
coated is essential to success. With 
nickel especially is this the case, as traces 
of oxide will cause it to show dark 
streaks. Finger marks will in any case 
render the deposit liable to peel off. 

Cleansing is generally accomplished 
either by boiling in strong solution of 
potassium hydrate, or, when possible, 
by heating to redness in a blow-pipe 
flame to burn off any adhesive grease, and 
then soaking in a pickle of dilute sul- 
phuric acid to remove any oxide formed 
during the heating. In either case it is 
necessary to subject the article to a 
process of scratch brushing afterwards; 
that is, long-continued friction with wire 
brushes under water, which not only 
removes any still adhering oxide, but 
renders the surface bright 

To certain metals, as iron, nickel, and 
zinc, metallic deposits do not readily 
adhere. This difficulty is overcome by- 
first coating them with copper in a bath 
composed as follows: 
II. — Potassium cyanide. 2 parts 
Copper acetate, in 

crystals - . 2 parts 

Sodium carbonate, 

in crystals 2 parts 

Sodium' bisulphite . . 2 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Moisten the copper acetate with 
small quantity of water and add the so 
dium carbonate dissolved m 20 parts o 
water When reaction is complete, a 
the copper acetate being converted mt 
carbonate, add the sodium bisulphit 
dissolved in another 20 parts of w ate 
lastly, add the potassium cyanide, dissolv 
n the remainde? of the water The fimshe 
product should be a colorless liquid 
V If a dynamo is not available for th 



IXXKJ JO .*v»" — . 

of a current, a .Daniell 



battery is to be recommended, and th 



production 
battery is tu m • 

"tank" for a small operation may be 
J«« 4ar The jar is crossed by copp 
fids in connection with the battery; th 
metal to be deposited is suspende 
£om the rod in connection with the pos 
tive pole, and is called the anode, lh 
-iirPes to be coated are suspended b 
ffic pper wire, from the rod : m co 
section with the negative pole, the 
Me cathode .^"f^^ 

its peeling. 



574 



PLATING 



nls 
so 



more tenaciously 



y^TtoTm surrcel'and ;flve r wUl 
g ttach itself more closely to copper or 
S than to a silver-plated surface 



a' 

brass 



move 
ver 



Consequently, it is the pructice to re-- 
a hv strirminf? or polishing tne sn 
from ol ^ plated articles before elec- 
• on tatfoK them. If this were not done, 
ffaepofited coating would in all prob- 
ability^ 'strip," as it is f™^^ 
the burnisher is applied to ^-that is, 
the newly deposited metal would peel 
ff the underlying silver. 

Silver Plating.-The term silver de- 
posit designates a coating of silver which 
£ deposited upon glass porcelain, china, 
or other substances. This deposit may 
be made to take the form of any desired 
design, and to the observer it has the ap- 
pearance (in the case of glass) of having 
been melted on. 

Practically all of the plated articles 
are made by painting the design upon 
the glass or other surface by means of a 
mixture of powdered silver, a flux and a 
liquid to make the mixture in the form 
of a paint so that it may be readily spread 
over the surface. This design is then 
fired in a muffle until the flux melts and 
causes the silver to become firmly 
attached to the glass. A thin silver 
deposit is thus produced, which, is a con- 
ductor of electricity, and upon which any 
thickness of silver deposit may be pro- 
duced by electroplating in the usual cya- 
nide silver-plating bath. 

To be successful in securing a lasting 
deposit a suitable flux must be used! 
lhis flux must melt at a lower tempera- 
ture than the glass upon which it is put, 
m order to prevent the softening of the 
articles by the necessary heat and the 
accompanying distortion. Second, a 
suitable muffle must be had for firing the 
glass art.c es upon which the design has 
been pamted Not only must a muffle 

• not doZ° l ng ° f the articles - « this 
cooling th£y arc a P t to cra <* while 

i^^SS** 0 *?™* 0 ', the flux is the 
process ° f the , Silver de P° sit 

ation win 2?} a g ° 0d flux thc °Pe*- 
i^qJntL L\\J EUCCeSS - This 
AftV a ^rie of ™ ^ amd or frit " 
found that !r f ex P eri ments it 
that the most suitable flux 



was 
is a 



borate of lead. This is easily prerja^.) 
fuses before the glass softens, and 3 
heres tenaciously to the glass surf ac 



To make it, proceed as follows: 



solve i pound of acetate of lead (sugar . 
lead) in 1 quart of water and heat? 
boiling. Dissolve \ pound of borax i 
1 quart of hot water and add to the sutrn 
of lead solution. Borate oF lead folloV 
as a white precipitate This is fil ter J 
out and washed until free from imrjuri 
ties. It is then dried. 

The precipitated borate of lead is th er , 
melted in a porcelain or clay crumble 
When in the melted condition it should 
be poured into a basin of cold water 
This serves to granulate and render it 
easily pulverized. After it has been 
poured into water it is removed and 
dried. Before using in the paint it i s 
necessary that this fused borate of lead 
be ground in a mortar as fine as possible. 
Unless this is doue the deposit will not be 
smooth. 

The silveT to be used should be finely 
powdered silver, which can be purchased 
m the same manner as bronze powders, 
The mixture used for painting the de- 
sign upon the glass is composed of 2 
parts of the powdered silver, and 1 part 
of the fused borate of lead. Place the 
parts in a mortar and add just enough 
oil of lavender to make the mass of a 
paint-like consistency. The whole is 
then ground with the pestle until it is as 
fine as possible. The amount of oil of 
lavender which is used must not be too 
great, as it will then be found that a 
thick layer cannot be obtained upon the 
glass. , 

The glass to be treated must be 
cleaned "by scouring with wet ptnntJS 
stone and washing soda. The glass 
should be rinsed and dried. The design 
is then painted on the glass with a brusn, 
painting as thick as possible aIld r ij ie 
leaving a smooth, even surface, 
glass should be allowed to dry tor *• 
hours, when it is ready for ^ Tin S- ,i e 

When placed in the gas muffle, v 
glass should be subjected to a t^JJjfg 
turc of a very low red heat. 1 lie 15 £ 
of lead will melt at this temperature- 
after holding this heat a short time 
enable the borate of lead to rjeit " 

is allo* eC1 



attach itself, 
cool. 



th< 



iiifflc 



remove^ 
d l» 
deposit 



of 



After cooling, the articles arc 
and scratch brushed and plf* cea 
silver bath for an electro dep 
silver of a thickness desired. .; c j e is 

Before the plating the gl»« s *T foU nd 
dipped into a cyanide dip, or, n &ice 
necessary, scoured lightly witn P 



PLATING 



575 



,nd cyanide, and then given a dip 
stone and ^ dip or mercury 

fon sfas to y quickly cover all parts 
S ? 1U J Surface. It next passes to the 
of t ie sujtace. x so l ut ion, and is 

Sfotd ^remain until the desired de- 

P °f\itUe b palium cyanide and some 

nn bisic : potassium citrate in powder 
mono : bas»K : p time t<j the 

aX^neSv -ed, which is prepared by 
dfssolving freshly precipitated Silver cva- 
S in a potassium cyanide solution. 
After Siis the glass is n'nsed and dried, 
and may be finished by Duffing. 

Steel Plating.— The following is a 
solution for dipping steel articles before 
kct opiating: titrate of silver 1 part; 
nitrate of mercury, 1 part; nitric acid 
(specific gravity, 1.384) 4 parts; water, 
g& parts. The .article, .free from 
grease, is dipped m the pickle for a 
second or two. , . • 

The following electroplating bath is 
used 1 Pure crystallized ferrous sulphate, 
40 parts, by weight, and ammonium 
chloride, 100 parts, by weight, in 1,000 
oarts by weight, of water. It is of ad- 
?antage y to fdd to this 100 .parts, by 
weight, of ammonium citrate, m order lo 
prevent the precipitation of basic iron 
salts, especially at the anode. 

Tin Plating by Electric Bath.— Most 
solutions give a dead-white film of tin, 
and this has to be brightened by friction 
of some sort, either by scratch brushing, 
burnishing, polishing, or rubbing with 
whiting. The bright tin plates are made 
bright by rolling with polished steel 
rollers. Small articles may be. bright- 
tinned by immersion in melted tin,. alter 
their surfaces have been made chemically 
clean and bright, all of which processes 
entail much time and labor. Benzoic 
acid, boric acid, or gelatin may be tried 
with a -well-regulated current and the 
solution in good working order, but all 
will depend upon the exact working, of 
the solution, the same conditions being 
set up as are present in the deposition or 
other metals. These substances may be 
separately tried, in the proportion of 1 
ounce to each gallon of the tin solution, 
by boiling the latter and adding either 
one during the boiling, as they dissolve 
much easier with the tin salts than in 
water separately. Tin articles are usu- 
ally brightened and polished with Vienna 
lime or whiting, the first being used with 
linen rags and the latter with chamois 
leather. Tin baths must be used hot, not 
below 75° F., with a suitable current ac- 
cording to their composition. Too strong 



a current produces a bad color, and the 
deposit does not adhere well. A current 
of from 2 to 6 volts will be sufficient. 
Small tinned articles are brightened by 
being shaken in a leather bag containing 
a quantity of bran or by revolving in a 
barrel with the same substance; but large 
objects have to be brightened by other 
means, such as scratch brushing and 
mopping to give an acceptable finish to 
the deposited metal. 



GILDING AND GOLD PLATING: 

Genuine gilding readily takes up mer 
cury, while imitation gilding does not or 
only very slowly. Any coating of var- 
nish present should, however, be re- 
moved before conducting the test. Mer 
curous nitrate has no action on genuin 
gold, but on spurious gilding a whit 
spot will form which quickly turns dar 
A solution of neutral copper chlorid 
docs not act upon genuine gold, but o 
alloys containing copper a black sp 
will result. Gold fringe, etc., retai 
its luster in spirit of wine, if the cildm 
is genuine; if not, the gilding. will bu 
and oxidize. Imitation gilding mig 
be termed "snuff gilding, ' as in Ge 
many it consists of dissolved brass, sn 
saltpeter, hydrochloric acid, etc., and 
used for tin toys. An expert will i 
mediately see the difference, as geum 
gilding has a different, more compa 
pore formation and a better colo 
There are also some gold varnish 
which are just as good. 

The effect of motion while an article is 
(receiving the deposit is most clearly seen 
/ during the operation of gilding. If a 
' watch dial, for instance, be placed in the 
Siding ba h and allowed to remain for a 
few moments undisturbed and the solu- 
tion of gold has been much, worked, it is 
probabfe that the dia will acquire a 
T^rk fox-red color; but if it he quickly 
moved about, it instantly changes cobr 
Tnd will sometimes even assume a pale 
anu win s- ^ color of a de- 

straw color. In * a ?\ „* t i Y by motion 
posit may be regulated greatly ^ 
of the article m ' ^ a faJ 
the operator should study w* 



576 

chased or embossed *J^*"&»£ 
& Wlow par s do not recgv 

posit at all ° r tl J e a r ii c 1 e must be rinsed 
{his i3 the case the am* & Httle 

and well scrateh bru snea lutio? . 
more cyanide added to ^ 

Xhe _ anode .^tterv powe^incrLsed 
motion and the baiterv ^ coa ted. 

ri ngs, »^°» e J a 7i l S 8 dc W red > sometimes 
^i,md thkt Kb gold will not deport 
LeW upon tie soldered parts; when 
such is the case, a little extra scratch 
KShiig applied to the part wJI «■£ 
the operation greatly and it has some 
times been found that dry scratch brush- 
ng for an instant-that is, without the 
stream of beer usually employed— ren- 
ders the surface a better and more uni- 
form conductor and consequently ^ will 
more readily receive the deposit. In 
fact, dry scratch brushing is very useful 
in many cases in which it is desirable to 
impart an artificial coating of brass upon 
an article to which silver or gold will not 
readily adhere. In scratch brushing 
without the employment of beer or some 
other liquid, however, great care must 
be taken not to continue the operation 
too long, as the minute partieles of metal 
given off by the scratch brush would be 
likely to prove prejudicial to the health 
of the operator, were he to inhale them 
to any great extent. 

The following solutions are for gilding 
without a battery: I. — In 1,000 parts of 
distilled water dissolve in the following 



PLATING 



order: 



Crystalline sodium 
pyrophosphate .... 

Twelve per cent solu- 
tion of hydrocyanic 
acid 

Crystalline gold chlo- 
ride. . . 



80 parts 



8 parts 
% parts 



the^rHcle a J^ in S.^Pe»ture, and dip 
therein ' prCVIOUsl y thoroughly cle 

1 na^-k? U -} U b , oilin S distilled water, 

into this soE P1 W e the objects 

them thereTj for *? lle "Yl hot ' and le ^e 
them atSd to kee P in S 



dean "stdp";? W C ° P ^ r Wif %?\ a ver J r 
» u i The -y will become 

Aluminum r^ dS ° m? l gold coatin g- 



covered with 

Parts of gold i^I^e-.-:!-— Diss, i <; 




aqua regia and dilute the 



golution with distdled water; 0 „ 
other hand, put 30 parts of li mc • - 
parts of distilled water; at the end 0 f J 
hours add the gold solution to the \Z 
shake all and allow to settle for 5 t * e ; 
hours, decant and wash the precinct 
which is lime aurate. Place this L^' 
of lime in 1,000 parts of distilled wah 
with SO parts of hyposulphite of SQ( D 
put all on the fire for 8 to 10 minut^' 
without allowing to boil; remove mA 
filter. The filtered liquor serves O 
gilding m the cold, by plunging into thU 
bath the aluminum articles previously 
pickled by passing through caustic po| 
ash and nitric acid. _ This gilding is qfe 
tained without the aid of the battery. 

II. — The gold bath is prepared with 
gold dissolved in the usual way, and the 
addition of salts, as follows: Gold, 20 
parts, by weight; sulphate of soda, 20 
parts; phosphate of soda, 6G0 parts; 
cyanuret of potassium, 40 parts; water' 
1,000 parts. The bath ought to be of 
the temperature of 68° to 77° F. 

Amalgam Gold Plating.— Gold amal- 
gam is chiefly used as a plating for silver, 
copper, or brass. The article to be 
plated is washed over with diluted nitric 
acid or potash lye and prepared chalk, 
to remove any tarnish or rust that might 
prevent the amalgam from adhering. 
After having been polished perfectly 
bright, the amalgam is applied as evenly 
as possible, usually with a fine scratch 
brush. It is then set upon a grate over 
a charcoal fire, or placed into an oven 
and heated to that degree at which mer- 
cury exhales. The gold, when the mer- 
cury has evaporated, presents a dull 
yellow color. Cover it with a coating ot 
pulverized niter and alum in equal parts, 
mixed to a paste with water, and urn* 
again till it is melted, then plunge mm 
water. Burnish up with a steel 
bloodstone burnisher. 

Brass Gilding.— On brass, whichjsg 
electropositive metal, an electron^ , 
metal, such as gold, can be depog^ 
very cheaply from the dilute so ' 
of its salts. The deposit is nstur ^ 
very thin, but still quite adhesiv^ ^ 
preparing it, the proportions s, .'' v . e d, 
low have to be accurately ? u coal i n * 
otherwise no uniform, coherent ^ 
will result, but one that is unett 
spotted. ffftter 

I.— In 750 parts, by weight, ° an d 
dissolve: Phosphate of soda, J p a ' r ts 
caustic potash, 3 parts, and m -* 0 f po- 
of water, gold chloride, 1 P an itL bo 1 * 
tassiurn cyanide, 16 parts. in 



hlt : ons well and cause the mixture to 
whereupon the brass articles, to be 
b ni7are immersed. The gold in the 
gl " fnre caii be utilized almost entirely. 
^Cthe -lution docs not ^wellanv 
Vtp a little potassium cyanide is added, 
Tud it i usef for pre-gilding the article^ 
thicb can then be glided again m a fresh 
Tolut ion. This solution is very weak. 
A stronger one can be prepared mechan- 
^ a S I y by dissolving * to 3 parts of gold 
cUoride in very little water to winch 1 
mrt of saltpeter is added Into this 
solution dip linen rags, et them dry in a 
rKrk place; and cause them to char into 
tinder, which is rubbed up in a porcelain 
dish Into the powder so made, dip a 
soft' slightly charred cork, moistened 
with a little vinegar, or else use only the 
finger, and rub the gold powder upon 
the brass articles. 

H To Give Brass a Golden Color, 

it is dipped until the desired shade is ob- 
tained into a solution of about 175 X ., 
produced as follows: Boil 4 parts of 
caustic soda, 4 parts of milk sugar, and 
100 parts of water for 15 minutes; next 
add 4 parts of blue vitriol, dissolved m as 
little water as possible'. 

Copper and Brass Gilding.— The solu- 
tions used to gild copper can b gener- 
ally used also for brass articles. Copper 
gilding acquires importance because in 
order to gild iron, steel, tin, and zinc, they 
must first be coated with copper, if the 
boiling method is to be employed. Fol- 
lowing is Langbein's bath for copper and 
brass: 

Dissolve 1 part, by weight, of chloride 
of gold and 16 parts, by weight, of potas- 
sium cyanide in 250 parts, by weighc. or 
water; dissolve also and separately, 5 
parts, by weight, of sodium phosphate 
and 3 parts, by weight, of caustic potash 
in 750 parts, by weight, of cold water. 
Mix these solutions and bring them to a 
boil. If the action subsides, add from 
3 to 5 parts, by weight, more potassium 
cyanide, The polished iron and steel 
objects must first be copper- plated by 
dipping them into a solution of 5 parts, 
by weight, of blue vitriol and 2 parts, by 
weight, of sulphuric acid in 1,000 parts, 
by weight, of water. They may now be 
dipped into a hot solution containing 6 
parts, by weight, of gold chloride and 
22 \ parts, by weight, of soda crystals in 
75 parts, by weight, of water. This 
coating of gold may be polished. 

Cold Chemical Gilding. — The chem- 
ical gilding by the wet process is accom- 
plished by E. E. Stahl with the aid of three 
baths: A gold bath, a neutralization 



bath, and a reduction bath. The gold 
bath is prepared from pure hydrochloric 
acid, 200 parts; nitric acid, 100 parts; 
and pure gold. The gold solution evap- 
orated to crystallization is made to con- 
tain \ \ per cent of gold by diluting with 
water. The neutralization, bath con- 
sists of soda lye of 6°, of pure sodium 
hydroxide, and distilled water. The 
reduction bath contains a mixture of 
equal parts of 90 per cent alcohol and 
distilled water, wherein pure hydrogen 
has been dissolved. The gilding proper 
is conducted by first entering the article 
in the gold bath, next briskly moving i 
about in the neutralization bath, an 
finally adding the_ reducing bath_ wit 
further strong agitation of the liquid 
The residues from the gilding are melte 
with 3 parts each of potash, powdere 
borax, and potash niter, thus recoverin 
the superfluous gold. . The gilding o 
silvering respectively produces a depos" 
of gold or silver of very slight thicknes 
and of the luster of polishing gold. B 
sides the metal solution an"anti-reduce 
is needed, consisting of 50 grams of rec' 
fied and rosinified turpentine oil and 
grams of powdered roll sulphur. Fro 
this is obtained, by boiling, a syrup 
balsam, to which is added, before us 
lavender oil, well-ground basic bismu" 
nitrate, and the solution for gilding 
silvering. The last takes place by 
hydrochloric solution of aluminum wi 
the above balsam. 

Colored Gilding. — A variety of shad 
of green and red gold can be obtain 
by the electro-chemical process win 
method may be employed for the decor 
tion of various objects of art. In order 
produce red gold in the different shad 
a plate of pure copper is hung into a rata 
concentrated gold bath (5 to 6 parts 
weight, per 1,000 parts of liquid), wni 
S Snnerted with the battery in such 
manner that gold is de posited on the a 
tide immersed in the bath. By the acu 
of the electric current copper is drssolv 
as well from the copper plate : and is sep 
rated simultaneously with the gold, 
Sat after a certain time, a deposit co 

afning a gold copper alloy, conforming 
color to tffe quantftiej of gold I and copp 

is taken out and repiaceu like*- 
sistine of the copper gold alloy, i^ew 
produced by electroSepogJo?, «dt 

SS list coloring is used even for p 



578 



employed, whi n s ^ oug h silver is dis- 
bat ^ud from wMch eno g 

solved until J^ e , ae P?f J e g lver plate is 
the desired shade. 1 he 3 uv y rf 

gilt with green gold. 

German Silver.-in gilding 
solution may be 
>erature, the solu- 



PLATING 

with the following composition: Wat* 
10,000 parts, by weight; sodium nt 
phate, 200 parts; sodium sulphat™ 



ular 



Gilding - 
fierman sdver the 



solution in cyanide (specially if 

SI be strong) wx^thout the of the 
battery; therefore, the 
K*» weaker in fact, so weak that trie <jer 
^SvS' will no/ deposit the gold p.r ^ ; 
otherwise the deposit will take ^ce » 
rapidly that the gold will peel off when 
being burnished or even scratch brushed. 

Gilding of Glass. — I- — In order to 
produce a good gilding on glass, the gold 
salt employed must be free from acid. 
Prepare three solutions, viz. ; 

a. 20 parts acid-free gold chloride in 
150 parts of distilled water. 

b. 5 parts dry sodium hydrate in 80 
parts of distilled water. 

c. 2 1 parts of starch sugar in SO parts 
distilled water; spirit of wine, 20 parts; 
and commercial pure 40 per cent alde- 
hyde, 20 parts. These liquids are quickly 
mixed together in the proportion of 200, 
50, and 5 parts, whereupon the mixture is 
poured on the glass previously cleaned 
with soda solution, and the gilding will 
be effected in a short time. The gold 
coating is said to keep intact for years. 
Ljl.— Coat the places to be gilded 
thinly with a saturated borax solution, 
lay the gold leaf on this and press down 
welt and uniformly ■ with cotton-wool, 
tieat the glass over a spirit flame, until 

Tf \£° T T m ? lts ' and a ' low to cool oft', 
it the gl ass is to be decorated with gilt 

° r . + c t esi g ns ' Paint the places to be 
gilded with water-glass solution of 40° 

dowa LT ^ e e°! d leaf. press 
lead lc " ers £ fig^es on with a 

^ a higTer^emper^:? 
•a^eSSf¥;"T, This ? n ¥ Stained 



1 



parts; potassium carbonate, l0 > *& 
1 ducat gold f™m gold chloride, fogf 
sium cyanide (100 per cent), 20 Pa 7; 
Dissolve the first three salts i n ft JJ- 
parts of cold water and add, with Wi 
ring, the gold chloride and pota ssi ^ 
cyanide. Before the first use boil down 
the solution thoroughly about one-half 
replacing the evaporating water and 
filter after cooling, in case a sediment 
should appear. To this gold bath vetv 
carefully add some silver bath. The 
platinum sheets which are to serve a, s 
anodes are employed 1£ inches long, l 
inch broad, and rJrs of an inch thick 
"With these anodes the gold tone can be 
somewhat regulated by hanging more or 
less deeply into the solution during the 
gilding. The current should have a tension 
of 3 to 4 volts. In the case of batteries 
three Busen elements^ are connected for 
current tension. It is difficult to pro- 
duce old gold on silver, especially if the 
raised portions are to appear green. 
It is most advantageous first to lightly 
copper the silver goods, taking the cop- 

Eer off again on the high places by 
rushing with pumice stone. After that 
hang at once in the above gold bath, 
If the embossed portions should be too 
mat, brighten slightly by scratching 
with a very fine brass wire brush. In 
this manner a handsome brown shade is 
obtained in the deep places and a green 
color on the raised portions. This proc- 
. ess requires practice. Since this method 
will produce only a very light gilding, a 
coating of white varnish will protect toe 
articles from tarnishing. 

Incrusting with Gold.— The article is 
first made perfectly bright, and un»5 
places which are to be gilt Br « J 01 ^ 
with a matt consisting of W J • to ' a 
ground with gum water, P^aae I 
paste which can be applied like a ^ 
paint by means of a pen or brush. ■ 
places of the metal surface not c °Vj t 
by the paint are coated Wlttt *JF ^ 
varnish — a solution of asp ha- « j s 
benzine to which oil of turpci 
added to render it less volatile. &g 
this is done lav the -•■ 



, ,. , article tn ^ 

that the white lead paint co ^ eS t f ie ' e lec- 
put it into a gilding bath. _ *>J T on & B 
trie current n-olrl is Drecipita 1 *?, t be 
etoi- ,i,„ ob' 



gildi 

current gold is precipi 



lift the 



A I?? 



bright parts of the mt- 
layer of gold is thick enough 
jeet from the bath, wash, let dry « rrh« 
it into a vessel filled with b en f°'' n d 0 
asphalt dissolves in the benzol, 





PLATING 



579 



, j.^jfrn appears in gold on the 
deSire ? o rs ver ground. This operation 
br011Z Uo be performed by coating the 
^ Hide with asphalt varnish and 

executing the ^ R the V ar- 

^' er ,oveng without scratching the 
mS l l itself On the parts thus bared 
m f l i deposited by the electric current 
g nd the varnish coating is then removed. 

P il dine —I. —The pattern is 
IV f r J itn a Ine camel's-h'air pencil 
P^fid wfth gold chloride. Ho d 
T 01 ' ,v over the mouth of a bottle in 
ih Z- TlldZZn gas is generated (by the 
Son KKlulphu'ric acid on ^ 
action Ui T , hydrogen reduces the 
r'Sehlor de In the painted places into 
ESdlic gold, and the gold him precipi- 
tin this manner will quick yob am a 
Considerable luster The gold film is 
very thin, but durable. _ 

tt This is especially suitable tor 

monograms. Take gold bronze and 
pkce as much as can be taken up with 
the point of a knife in a color-cup, 
moistening with a few drops of genuine 
Engl h gold paint. Coat the raised 
portions sparingly with gold, usmg a fine 
pencil; next, coat the outer and inner 
borders of the design. _ When the work 
is done, and if the staining and gilding 
have been unsuccessful, which occurs 
frequently at the outset, lay the work 
for 5 or 10 minutes in warmed lead water 
and brush off with pumice stone. By 
this process very fine shades are often 
obtained which cannot be produced by 
mere staining. Since the gold readily 
wears off on the high places of the work, 
it is well to lightly coat these portions 
with a thin shellac solution before gild- 
ing. This will cause the gilding to be 
more permanent. 

Mat Gilding. — To obtain a handsome 
mat gilding the article, after having 
been neatly polished, is passed through 
a sand-blast, such as is found .in glass- 
grinding and etching establishments; 
next, the object is carefully cleansed 
of fine sand (if possible, by annealing 
and decocting), thereupon it is gilt and 
subsequently brushed mat with the brass 
brush. Where there is no sand-blast, 
the article is deadened with the steel 
wire brush, which will produce a satis- 
factory result, after some practice. After 
that, treatment is as above. The above- 
mentioned applies in general only to 
silver articles. In case of articles at 
gold, brass, or tombac, it is better to 
previously silver them strongly, since 
they are too hard for direct treatment 



with the steel wire brush, and a really 
correct mat cannot be attained. The 
brushes referred to are, of course, cir- 
cular brushes for the lathe. 

Dead-Gilding of an Alloy of Copper 
and Zinc. — The parts which are to be 
deadened must be isolated from those 
which are to be polished, and also from 
those which are to be concealed, and 
which therefore are not to be gilded. 
For this purpose they are coated with a 
paste made of Spanish white mixed with 
water. The articles prepared in this 
manner are then attached by means of 
iron wire to an iron rod and suspended 
in a furnace constructed for this process. 
The floor of this furnace is covered on 
four sides with plates of enameled earth- 
enware for receiving the portions spat- 
tered about of the sail mixture given off 
later 

In the middle is an oven constructe( 
like a cooking stove, on which is an iron 
tripod for carrying the deadening pan; 
this latter is cemented into a second par 
of cast iron, the intervening space beini 
filled up with stove cement. In the mid- 
dle of the pan is the bottom or sill, pro- 
vided with a thick cast-iron plate, form- 
ing the hearth. On all four sides of the 
latter are low brick walls, connecting 
with the floor of the furnace, and the 
whole is covered with thick sheet metal. 
On the side of the furnace opposite in- 
side arranged for carrying the pans, is 
boiler in which boiling water is kept. 
On the same side of the furnace, but out- 
side it is a large oval tub of a capacity of 
about' WO or S 800 quarts, which is kep 
filled with water. The upper P°rt"»* 
of the staves of this tub are covered with 
finen to Ibsorb all parts that are spat- 
tered about. 

Powder for Gilding Metals.— I— In a 



Powder tor wiomg_^»«" r, , 
solution of perchlonde of go Id soak 

■^tr3u&n h « &aT^ dro\s fall- 
over the sot <f*° n s ° d W hen the rags 
ing therefrom are S a^ed u 

are dry burn X* st irred with 

wood, linden, or poplar. w( 



in rdtro-muriatic aaa«j« >■ ' so f u _ 

tate it by a P ie f,°/. C0P ^he precipitate, 
tion of (ron sulphate^ Iht? ^ ^ 

if by copper, mu , st .C n a ^ ashe d by pour- 



PLATING 



inora easily burnished than gold leaf 
iound with honey. 

Gliding P-t 1r I r A ? ood gdjug 
s i3 Prepared as tonows r 



Edition of tallow a necessary rf 



jrger addition ot tanow « ^j. 

white of an egg w added. Alter 
each addition the mixture should be 
stirred up well and the white of egg 
should be P added, not to the warm, but 
almost cold, mixture. 

IT— Alum, 3 parts, by weight; salt- 
peter 6 parts; sulphate of zinc, S parts; 
bommon P S alt/ 3 narts. . Mix all into a 
thick paste, dip the articles into it, and 
heat them, until nearly black, on a piece 
of sheet iron over a clear coke or char- 
coal fire; then plunge them into cold 
water. 

Red Gilding. — This is obtained by the 
use of a mixture of equal parts of verdi- 
gris and powdered tartar, with which the 
article is coated; subsequently burning it 
off on a moderate coal fire. Cool in 
water, dip the article in a pickle of tartar, 
xratch it, and a handsome red shade 
will be the result, which has not attacked 
the gilding in any way. 

kegilding Mat Articles. — In order to 
regenerate dead gold trinkets without 
having to color them again — which is, as 
a rule, impossible, because the gold is too 
weak to stand a second coloring — it is 
advisable to copper these articles over 
before gilding them. After the copper 
has deposited all over, the object, well 
2fj-i_ a ™ d scratched, is hung in the 

much 

r -. , wy auAill AS 

nave experienced in gilding 



gilding. By this manipulation mm-ii 
time and vexation is saved, such as every 
jeweler will have experienced in e^i-- 

quires a faultless new appearance. Here 
coppeTbSs? 63 f ° r thG P-P-^ion of 
I : — Distilled boiling 



Dart* TTT^i " u,u ?g water, 2,000 

Saris- e * gKt; SOd um sulphate 

parts, potassium ovicide, 1* -—>■-: 

sodiui 

, ■ ... > * parts 

II— Dissol 



ms^'P 3 * toe el 0 



■ acetate, 15 parts; 
?arts; ammonia, 1 

* Parts! 1^000 pa d rt ?° taSSniT11 mniA ' 



eomplisWTbr^eTeV^ 



lung water, 

only be ac- 
ne process. The 



fiber is first rendered conductive by im 
pregnation. with silver nitrate s^J- 
and reduction of same with g rape 
and diluted alkali, or best of a ll, 
Raschig's reduction salt. In place of tw« 
silver nitrate, a solution of lead acetate 
or copper acetate may be empl oyed 
The silk thus impregnated is treated in 
the solution of an alkaline sulphide'e » 
sodium sulphide, ammonium sulphij'' 
or else with hydrogen sulphide, thus pro' 
ducing a conductive coating of metallic 
sulphide. Upon this gold can be p re . 
cipitated by electrodeposition in the usual 
way. 

Spot Gilding. — Gilding in. spots, p ro , 
ducing a very fine appearance, is done 
by putting a thin coat of oil on thos" 
parts of the metal where the gilding is not 
to appear; the gold will then be deposited 
in those spots only where there is no oil, 
and the oil is easily removed when the 
work is finished. 

Gilding Steel. — Pure gold is dissolved 
in aqua regia; the solution is allowed to 
evaporate until the acid in excess has 
gone. The precipitate is placed in clean 
water, 3 times the quantity of sulphuric 
acid is added and the whole left to stand 
for 24 hours in a well-closed flask, until 
the ethereal gold solution floats on tcp. 
By moistening polished steel with the 
solution a very handsome gilding is ob- 
tained. By the application of designs 
with any desired varnish the appearance 
of a mixture of gold and steel may be im- 
parted to the article. 

Wood Gilding. — I. — The moldings, 
ledges, etc., to be gilded are painted with 
a strong solution of joiners' glue, which 
is left to harden well, whereupon 18 to LV 
coatings of glue mixed with whitening 
are given. Each coat must, of course, 
be thoroughly dry, before commencing 
the next. After this has been done, 
paint with a strong mixture of glue a 
minium, and while this is still wet, put 
the gold leaflets and press them do* 
with cotton. To impart the line g< ^ 
polish with a burnishing agate art 
superfluous gold has been removed. 

II.— Proceed as above, but ^ k ^;3 
leaf instead of gold leaf, and n " L uouS 
is thoroughly dry and the f u P e c r oat ing 
silver has been removed, appO <L , 
of good gold lacquer. The ette c * 
be equally satisfactory. ^ 

Zinc Gilding.— I.— Gilding by jgjjj^ 
of zinc contact may be accoiiip bjr 
with the following formula: 1 wo p» b; 
weight, of gold chloride; o P. ar 
weight, of potassium cyanide; * 



is. 




PLATING 



581 



with a 
rass are 
This is 
Heat a 



weight, of fculphite of soda; and 60 
b L7s by weight, of sodmm phosphate 
P r l dissolved in 1,000 parts of water 
Ti'Ln used the hath must, be hot. A 
*ld SaX without the addition of potas- 
Zi cyanide may also be used for g, d- 
• «nd this consists of 7 parts, by 
ing -' h> of '-old chloride; 30 parts, by 
* e - g h ' uf yellow prussiate of potash; 30 
hv wei-ht of potash; 30 parts, by 
-It in LOW? part, of 

^tt^Lto gild zinc articles, dissolve 
an Jarts of gold chloride in 20 parts of 
Klled water, and SO parts of potassium 
cyanide in SO parts, of water, mix the 
u.tions stir a few times, filter, and add 
?a t a r5 parts, and fine chalk, 100 parts. 
The resulting paste is applied 
Brash Objects of copper and b 
previously coated with zinc, 
done in the following manner 
concentrated sal ammoniac solutionto 
the boiling point with addition of zinc 
dust and immerse the thoroughly cleaned 
objects until a uniform zinc coating has 
formed. Or boil the articles in a con- 
centrated caustic soda solution with zmc 
dust. 

OXIDIZING PROCESSES: 

Aluminum Plating, — I. — To plate iron 
and other metals with pure aluminum, 
deoxidize the pieces with a solution of 
borax and place them in an enameling 
oven, fitted for receiving metallic vapors. 
Raise the temperature to 1,832° to 2,732° 
F. Introduce the aluminum vapors 
generated by heating a quantity of the 
metal on the sand bath. When the 
vapors come in contact with the metallic 
surfaces, the aluminum is deposited. 
The vapors that have not been used or 
are exhausted may be conducted into a 
vessel of water. 

To Copper Aluminum, 
take 

H.- — Sulphate of copper. 30 parts 
Cream of tartar.. . . 30 parts 

Soda 25 parts 

Water 1,000 parts 

The articles to be coppered are merely 
dipped in this bath, but they must be 
^cll cleaned previously. 

Antimony Baths. — I. — By dissolving 
15 parts, by weight, of tartar emetic 
a-nd 15 parts of prepared tartar in 500 
parts of hot water and adding 45-60 
parts of hydrochloric acid and 45-60 
parts of powdered antimony, brass be- 
comes coated in the boiling liquid with 
beautiful antimony colors. In this 
manner it is possible to impart to brass 



golden, copper-red, violet, or bluish-gray 
shades, according to a shorter or longer 
stay of the objects in the liquid. These 
antimony colors possess a handsome 
luster, are permanent, and never change 
in the air. 

II, — Carbonate of soda, 200 parts, by 
weight; sulphide of antimony, 50 parts; 
water, 1,000 parts. Heat the whole in 
a porcelain^ capsule for 1 hour, keeping 
constantly in ebullition; next, filter the 
solution, which, on cooling, leaves a 
precipitate, which boil again with the 
liquid for one-half hour, whereupon th 
bath is ready for use. 

To Coat Brass Articles with Antimony 
Colors. — Dissolve 15 parts, by weight, of 
tartar emetic and 15 parts, by weight, of 
powdered tartar in 500 parts, by weight, 
of hot water and add 50 parts, by weight 
of hydrochloric acid, and 50 parts, by 
weight, of powdered antimony. In+c 
this mixture, heated to a boil, the 
mersed articles become covered wit' 
luster colors, a golden shade appearin 
at first, which is succeeded by cne 
copper red. If the objects remain ionge 
in the liquid, the color passes into viole 
and finally into bluish gray. 

Brassing. — I. — To brass small articl 
of iron or steel drop them into a our rt 
water and \ ounce each of sulphate 
copper and protoehloride of tin. St 
the articles in this solution until desire 
color is obtained. 

II. — Brassing Zinc, Steel, Cast I 
etc. — Acetate of copper, 100 parts, b 
weight; cyanide of potassium, 250. parts 
bisulphite of soda, 200 parts; liquid am 
monia, 100 parts; protoehloride of zm 
80 parts; distilled water, 10,000 parts 
Dissolve the cyanide of potassium an 
the bisulphite of soda. On the othe 
hand, dissolve the ammonia , in tnre 
fourths of the water and. the prot. 
chloride of zinc in the remaining water 
next, mix the two solution*. Th s bat 
is excellent for brassing zmc and is use 
cold. „„_ , 

de iv!-Aoetat e of copper, 150 'PjrUj, b 

cyanide of P° tos 0 s i u ^ r ,° p F ro tochlorid 
piute of soda 200 a8 abov 

^Sbatbsa^or iron, cast iron, an 
steel, and is used cold. 



PLATING 



r . „„ Mptal — Dissolve 200 
Colored ^^° n ? e !?u S tic potash in 
parts, by ^!i e ? f an Tadd ™ ° f 
1,000 P^f/^J Solution for W£ an 
litharge- B« u t a little of the 

hour, taking «™ ^solved. .When 
litharge winains una ^ ^ 

cold, pour oft the clear ^ d 

ready for ^f' • V ellow-brown color 
fro in the solution, a yeuo UoW> 

'pears, becoming ^* u "VJl violet and 
* e P | and finally a beauUf ^ 
blue. As soon as tne a quic kly 

*uid dry in sawdust. 

£3f rf "SS ^^ostl, exhibit a 

«f ranstic soda and 4U pans ui ^ 

La^y a Tc q SLera h °da r rk,vellow color. 
Now addlo the mixture, which is re- 
moved from the fire, 40 parts of concen- 
trated cold blue vitriol solution. A red 
precipitate is obtained from the vitriol, 
which falls to the bottom at 167 b. 
Next a wooden sieve, fitted to the vessel 
is put into the liquid with the polished 
brass articles. Toward the end of the 
second minute the golden color is usually 
dark enough. The sieve with the arti- 
cles is taken out and the latter are 
washed and dried in sawdust. If they 
remain in the copper solution they soon 
assume a green color, which in a short 
time passes into yellow and bluish green, 
and finally into the iridescent colors. 
These shades must be produced slowly 
at a temperature of 133° to 135° F. 

To Give a Green Color to Gold Jew- 
elry. — Take verdigris, HO parts, by 
weight; sal ammoniac, 120 parts; ni- 
trate of potassium, 45 parts; sulphate 
of zinc, 16 parts. Grind the whole and 
mix with strong vinegar. Place on the 
fare and boil in it the articles to be col- 
ored. 

Nickeling by Oxidation.— I.— Nickel- 
ing may be performed on all metals cold, 
by means of nickelene by the Mitresaey 
process without employing electrical 
apparatus, and any desired thickness 

nickel. U 18 Said t0 be m ° rc 3 ° lid 

take'? ^ a I h -T: Clean the °Mects and 
potash S by w f Sbt, of American 
?f the nil 5 PartS ' b ? wei S ht - °f water. 



partg, by weight of ehlorhydric ladd 
I part, by weight, of water. The 1 



.i part, 

is employed cold 



. Per 
bath 



emp'u.r 

Second Bath.— Put 250 parts, v 
weight, of sulphate ot copper in 25,000 
parts, by weight of water. After di s . 
solution add a few drops of sulphuric 
acid, drop by drop, stirring the li quid 
_.'i.U r. wririn^n stick until it 



solution add a few drops of sulph 
acid, drop by drop, stirring the li quid 
with a wooden stick until it become 
clear as spring water. 

Take out the pieces thus cleaned and 
place them in what is called the copp et 
bath, attaching to them leaves of zh vc . 
they will assume a red tint. Then p aS g 
them into the nickeling bath, which i s 
thus composed: 

By weight 

Cream of tartar 20 parts 

Sal ammoniac, in 

powder 10 parts 

Kitchen salt 5 parts 

Stannous chloride 20 parts 

Sulphate of nickel, 

single 30 parts 

Sulphate of nickel, 

double 50 P arts 

Remove the pieces from the bath in a 
few minutes and rub them with fine sand 
on a moist rag. Brilliancy will thus be 
obtained. To improve the appearance, 
applv a brass wire brush. The nickel- 
ing is said to be more solid and beauti- 
ful than that obtained by the electrical 

method. . , . 

Brilliancy may be also imparted D> 
means of a piece of buff glued on a 
wooden wheel and smeared with mm 
lish red stuff. This will give a glazed 
appearance. 

H._p rep are a bath of neutral »m 
chloride and a neutral solution oi 
nickel salt. The objects are un MCijr 
in the bath with small pieces oi v 
and kept boiling for sometime. 



Iphate in the proper" 
of the latter to o n > °j fe 



process has given sat l rfactory r 
It is easy to prepare the wnc c ^ 
bv dissolving it in hydrochloric 
well as a saturated solution °^*od& 
niacal nickel sulp 
of two volumes of 

zinc chloride. The objects sn^ bat | 
boiled for 15 minutes in v* , re f. 
Nickel salt may also be employe > 
erably in the state of chloride. 

... J c opP e ' 

Pickling Solutions.— Oxidize ^ 
brass, and German silver article Jn ^ 
be cleansed bv acid solutions- 
case of brass alloys, this pr° ceS j u ]l yd' 
which the object acquires a or 
low surface, is known as <■ vj^p <" 
yellowing. The treatment c 



I 



PLATING 



583 



tide ? caustic "oda and 10 parts water, 
1 P art ; Tc Sutfon of potash or soda or in 
or m a so ut b - ects may be r .laced 

lime r nS S benzine. When all the 
in al been removed, the article is 



int ? iVpartT water, and allowed to re- 
an d 10 pang acqu i res a reddish tinge, 
mam m tul " 1 H in 40 ° iv> nitrin 
ft is then immersed in *u 



mam 
is 



"T Sr*rS- of removing .the 
aC \ d :- -,Z ind then for a few seconds into 
part nitric acid, 1.25 parts 

* fnl uric acid of 66° Be., 0.01 part com- 
sulphuric ac a lampblack. 

m on salt, ana u.o* F u . i,^^ 

The 



T article must 'then be immediately 
fl ^%: r refuly washed with watei .till no 
trace of acid remains. It is tnen reaoy 
S galvanizing or drying m bran or 
teech sawdust When articles united 
S soft solder are pickled m nitric acid, 
The solder receives a gray-black color. 

Palladiumizing Watch Movements.— 
Palladium is successfully employed for 
coatine parts of timepieces and other 
pieces of metals to preserve them against 
oxidation. To prepare a. palladium 
bath use the following ingredients: 
Chloride of palladium, 10 parts, by 
weight; phosphate of ammonia, 100 
parts; phosphate of soda, 300 parts; 
benzoic acid, 8 parts; water, 2,000 
parts. 

Metal Browning by Oxidation.— The 
article ought first to be cleaned with 
either nitric acid or muriatic acid, then 
immersed in an acid affecting the metal 
and dried in a warm place. A light 
coating is thus formed.. For a second 
coating acetic or formic acid is used 
preferably for aluminum, nickel, and 
copper; but for iron and steel, muriatic 
or nitric acid. After cleaning, the. arti- 
cle is placed in a solution of tannin or 
gallic acid, and is then dried in a warm 
place as before. The second coating is 
of a yellowish-brown color. On placing 
it near the fire, the color can be deepened 
until it becomes completely black; care 
must be taken to withdraw it when the 
desired shade is produced. Instead or 
the acids employed for the first coating, 
ammonia may be used. 

, Silvering by Oxidation. — The oxidiz- 
ing of silver darkens it, and eives an an- 
tique appearance that is highly prized. 

L— The salts of silver are colorless 
when the acids, the elements of which 



enter into their composition, are not col- 
ored, but they generally blacken on ex- 

Eosure to light. It is easy, therefore, to 
lacken silver and obtain its oxide; it is 
sufficient to place it in contact with a 
sulphide, vapor of sulphur, sulphohydric 
acids, such as the sulphides or polysul- 
phides of potash, soda, dissolved in water 
and called eau de barege. The chlorides 
play the same part, and the chloride of 
lime in solution or simply Javelle water 
may be used. It is used hot in order to 
accelerate its action. The bath must be 
prepared new for each operation for two 
reasons: (1) It is of little value; (2) 
the sulphides precipitate rapidly and 
give best effects only at the time of their 
direct precipitations. The quantity of 
the reagent in solution, forming the bath, 
depends upon the thickness of the deposit 
of silver. When this is trifling, the oxi- 
dation penetrates the entire deposit and 
the silver exfoliates in smaller scales, 
leaving the copper bare. It is neces- 
sary, therefore, m this case to operate 
with dilute baths inclosing only about 
45 grains of oxidizant at most per quart. 
The operation is simple: Heat the nec- 
essary quantity of water, add the sul- 
phide or chloride and agitate to ettec 
the solution of the mixture, and then al 
once plunge in the silver-plated articles, 
leaving them immersed only for. a le^ 
seconds, which exposure is sufficient tc 
cover it with a pellicle of deep Wack-Uu» 
silver. After withdrawing they an 
plunged in clean cold water, rinsed 

and either left mat or else pol 
ished, according to the nature of tin 

^Should the result not be satisfactory 

Sue P "f^ and brush jj 
S brushes pas-d over wax. Or «g 

brush with a soft ^S^oride soh 
holic or aqueous platimc cmor. 
tion of 1 in 20. 

m.-Sulphurizing tarfejed with tb 
following methods, vv otass i u , 
heated to about 175 JS. F amnlt 
sulphide 5 P^ ts | 0 b y r r ; S Water, 1,00 
nium carbonate, 10 ' W£ j to g part: 

parts; or, ca . lc ' um 4( SU D 1 P r t 3 ; water. 1.0C 
sal ammoniac, 4 parts, 

parts. 



PLATING 



potassium nitrate, F of br0 . 

thereby. 

. 4 qw t T Mix together bis- 

from all grease, which is best accom 
plSed b/ boiling them 
tion or by washing in spmt oi wine- 
Care should be talfen not to touch the 
article with the fingers after this 

cleaning. However clean the hand 
Say be! it always has grease on it and 
leaves spots after touching, especially on 
steel. Next the object is dipped into 
the liquid, or if this is not possible the 
solution is applied thin but evenly with a 
brush, pencil, or rabbit's foot. When 
the liquid has dried, the article is placed 
for a half hour in simple boiling water. 
If a very dark shade is desired the proc- 
ess i3 repeated until the required color 
is attained. 

II. — Apply, by means of a sponge, a 
solution or crystallized iron chloride, 2 
parts; solid butter of antimony, 2 parts; 
and gallic acid, 1 part in 5 parts of water. 
Dry the article in the air and repeat the 
treatment until the desired shade is 
reached.. Finally rinse with water, 
dry, and rub with linseed-oil varnish. 

Tinning by Oxidation.— A dipping 
bath for tinning iron is prepared by dis- 
solving 300 parts, by weight, ammonia 
alum (sulphate of alumina and sulphate 
of ammonia) and 10 parts of melted 
stannous chloride (tin salt) in 20,000 
parts of warm water. As soon as the 
solution boils, the iron articles, previ- 
ously pickled and rinsed in fresh water, 
are plunged into the fluid; they are im- 
mediately covered with a layer of tin of 
a beaut.ful dull-white color! which can 
be made bright by treatment in a tub or 
idHprf * 1 .^"titics of tin salt are 
S r t0 , time as m ay be re 

for tinW \< u h 1S , also weH adapted 

iron the Inn " but here also > as ^ith 

vent oxidation ^ no { ,^ { *cient to pre- 

Larger aSli + ° f ^ e melal below. 

8 " artlcles tln ned in this way are 



polished by scratch brushing. |n r 
ning zinc ^ lhls , P ro , c ess, the a* m< 3' 
alum may be replaced by any other 
of alum, or aluminum sulphate m * T 1 
used alone; experience has shown L 



„ver, that this cannot be done with ir 
cast iron, or steel. If it is desired to H 



ow. 



other metals besides iron and zinc j n 
solution which we have described \\ 
battery must be resorted to; if the latht 
is used, the above solution should be jm 
plied in preference to any other. 



tip- 



PATINA OXIDIZING PROCESSES: 

Patina of Art Bronzes. — For all 
patinas, whether the ordinary brown 
of commerce, the green of the Bary e 
bronzes, or the dark-orange tint of the 
Florentine bronzes, a brush is used with 
pigments varying according to the shade 
desired and applied to the metal after it 
is warmed. Recipes are to be met with 
on every hand that have not been pat- 
ented. But the details of the operation 
are the important thing, and often the 
effect is produced by a handicraft which 
it is difficult to penetrate. 

I. — A dark tint may be obtained by 
cleaning the object and applying a coat 
of hydrosulphate of ammonia; then, 
after drying it, by rubbing with a brush 
smeared with red chalk and plumbago. 
The copper may also be moistened with 
a dilute solution of chloride of platina 
and warmed slightly, or still by plunging 
it in a warm solution of the hydroclilo- 
rate of antimony. For the verde an- 
tique a solution is recommended com- 
posed of 200 grams of acetic acid oi S 
strength, the same quantity of common 
vinegar, 30 parts, by weight, ot .car- 
bonate of ammonia; 10 parts, by weigm, 
of sea salt; with the same quantities . m 
, cream of tartar and acetate oi . C °PF 
and a little water. To obtain W 
bronze of medals several processes ano 
a selection: For example, the piece : 
be dipped in a bath consisting 0 e 4 
parts of the perchloride and the s » ' 
zotate of iron, warming to the e F ft 
tion of the liquid, and rubbing * 

waxed brush. ,„ 

10 par?' 



llr— Dissolve copper nitrate, ~~ jn 
by weight, and kitchen salt, » J ^ oa i, 
500 parts of water and add a son 
ammonium acetate obtained "J . it? | 



[0 parts of officmaJ *l ' 
wit h acetic acid to » 



tl? 
ate 1 



tralization of 1 
sal ammoniac w 
acid reaction, and filling up 
to 500 parts. Immerse the pi , rep 
to dry, brush off superficially hf^ 
this until the desired shade oi 
beeii obtained. 



the bronze 



PLATING 



585 



ermaneat Patina for Copper.— 



75 parts 
37 parts 



camel s-hair pencil, 
until the desired 



A Pe 

Sodium chloride. 37 parts 
Ammonia water . . 
Ammonium chlo- 
ride 

ctTone wine vin- 
St S 5,000 parts 

Mix and dissolve. Apply to objectto 
h P treated, with a 
Repeat the operation un 
fhade of green n reached. 

Yellow Green. — 
n -Oxalic acid... 5 parts 
Ammonium chlo- 
ride 10 P arts 

Acetic acid, 30 per 

cent dilution. ... oOO parts 
Mix and dissolve. Use as above in- 
dicated. The following wdl produce 
the same result: 
jii — Potassium oxalate, 

acid.. - 4 parts 

Ammonium chlo- 
ride 16-17 parts 

Vinegar contain- 
ing 6 per cent of 
acetic acid 1,000 parts 

IV— Bluish Green. — After using the 
first formula (for green) pencil over with 
the following solution: 

Ammonium chlo- 
ride 40 parts 

Ammonium car- 
bonate 120 parts 

"Water 1,000 parts 

Mix and dissolve. 
Greenish Brown. — 

V, — Potassium s u 1 - 

phuret 5 parts 

Water 1,000 parts 

Mix and dissolve. With this, pencil 
over object to be treated, let dry, then 
pencil over with 10 parts a mixture of a 
saturated solution of ammonia water and 
acetic acid and 5 parts of ammonium 
chloride thinned with 1,000 parts of 
water. Let dry again, then brush off 
well. Repeat, if necessary, until the 
desired hue is attained. 

Another Blue Green. — 
VI- — Corrosive sublimate. 25 parts 
Potassium nitrate.. 86 parts 

Borax 56 parts 

Zinc oxide 113 parts 

Copper acetate . . .220-225 parts 
Mix and heat together on the surface 
of the object under treatment. 



VII. — Brown. — The following is 
Parisian method of producing a beau 



is a 



3 parts 



tiful deep brown: 

Potassium oxalate, 

acid 

Ammonium chlo- 
ride 15 parts 

Water, distilled. . . . 280 parts 
_ Mix and dissolve. The object is pen., 
ciled over with this several times, each 
time allowing the solution to dry be- 
fore putting on any more. The process 
is slow, but makes an elegant finish. 

Green Patina Upon Copper. — To pro- 
duce a green patina upon copper take 
tartaric acid, dilute it half and naif wit' 
boiling water; coat the copper with this 1 
allow to dry for one day and rub the ap 
plied layer off again the next day wit 
oakum. The coating must be done if 
dry weather, else no success will be o 1 
tained. Take hydrochloric acid an 
dilute it half and half with boiling wate 
but the hydrochloric acid should b 
poured in the water, not vice-vers 
which is dangerous. In this hydr 
chloric acid water dissolve as much zinc 
as it can solve and allow to settle. The 
clear liquid is again diluted half with 
boiling water and the copper is coated 
with this a few times. 

Black Patina — Black patina is ob 
tained by coating with tallow the pieces 
to be oxidized and lighting with a rosin 
torch. Finally, wipe the reliefs and let 
dry. 

Blue -Black Patina.— Use a dilute so- 
lution of chloride of antimony m water 
and add a little free hydrochloric acid. 
Apply with a soft brush, allow the article 
to dry and rub with a flannel. If ex- 
pense is no object, employ a solution of 
Side of palladium, w -h Jives * 
magnificent blue black It u ."f eS fJ>^ 
however, to previously clean the articles 
"guly in" a hot so JuUon o carbon- 

the patina^from becoming fixed. 

p P d Patina.— The following, is a new 
, m e^od P of 1 making a red i patina the «j 
called blood br-- on coppe 

S° P t P SadS £d hot whereby it becomes 
first made rea ^ > . conS i S tjng of 
covered with *, co *"J5f M an d cuprous 

OX1 T A S with a polishing pfate unti 
SL^SSS an fcJS ~d color, 



586 

.i „y p deeree of luster, both 
with a considerable aegrec _ ^ ^ hft 



PLATING 



itl^oT^icrSl^heinginthe 

, urfsce , '"Stead of an eve ^ ^ ar 
borax or some ; ohemieal fl B durmg 
action »!P^E%, the places 



th'e" nidation if prc 



covered by the bt 
vented, and after 
original metallic c 
--/surface. The 
„ell-known processes, so as 
Sesired marbled appearance 



of the 

color wilfappear in the 
r ! ( These can 



be colored by 
to give the 



vessels coated with a Uyer J 



are recommcn- . . 
vessels, when not exposed to very 



ded in place of platinum 



high 

alkaline. The layer of platinum is made 
thicker by repeated application, t otasli 
lye is carefullv added to a solution ot 
5 to 10 per cent of platinic chloride m 
water till a slightly alkaline reaction is 
produced on filtering paper or a porce- 
lain plate by means of phenolphthalein. 
This solution must always be freshly 
prepared, and is the best for the purpose. 
Neither galvanizing nor amalgamating 
will produce the desired result. Special 
care must be taken that the aluminum 
is free from iron, otherwise black patches 
will arise which cannot be removed. 
Vessels platinized in this way must not 
be cleaned with substances such as sea- 
sand, but with a 5 to 10 per cent solution 
of oxalic acid in water, followed by thor- 
ough-rinsing in water. These vessles 
are said to be specially suitable for evap- 
orating purposes. 

Platinizing Copper and Brass. — I. — The 
articles are coated with a thin layer of 
platinum in a boiling solution of platinum 
sal ammoniac, 1 part; sal ammoniac, 8 
parts; and water, 40 parts, and next pol- 
ished with chalk. A mixture of equal 
parts of platinum sal ammoniac and tar- 
ter may also be rubbed on the objects. 
Steel and iron articles can be platinized 
an ethereal solution of platinic 




II.— Heat 800 parts of sal amm 0llia( , 
and 10 parts of platinum sal ammoni^ 
to the boiling point with 400 p arts ^ 
water, in a porcelain dish, and p^ ace ^ 
articles to be platinized into this, wh ere 
by they soon become covered with . 
coating of platinum. They are then re , 
moved from the liquid, dried and n e 1 
ished with whiting. 

Platinizing on Glass or Porcelain 

First dissolve the platinum at a moder, 
ate temperature in aqua regia, and next 
evaporate the solution to dryness, ob. 
serving the following rules: When th e 
solution commences to turn thick it i 3 
necessary to diminish the fire, while 
carrying the evaporation so far that the 
salt becomes dry, but the solution should 
not be allowed to acquire a brown color, 
which occurs if the heat is too strong'. 
The result of this first operation is 
chloride of platina. When the latter 
has cooled oil it should be dissolved in 
alcohol (95 per cent). The dissolution 
accomplished, which takes place at the 
end of 1 or 8 hours, throw the solution 
gradually into four times its weight of 
essence of lavender, then put into a well- 
closed flask. 

For use, dip a brush into the solution 
and apply it upon the objects to be plat- 
inized, let dry and place in the muffle, 
leaving them in the oven for about one- 
half hour. In this operation one should 
be guided as regards the duration J 
the baking by the hardness or fusibility 
of the objects treated. The platimza- 
tion accomplished, take a cotton clo u, 
dipped into whiting in the state of mj>, 
and rub the platinated articles with tins, 
rinsing with water afterwards. 

Platinizing Metals.— Following a* 
several processes of platinizing on mev 

al It is understood that the metals s to bj 
covered with platinum must be c 
<>e coppered. All these baths requ* 

300 pa rts ; 
12 parts i 



with 

aofS' ? a \ small jewehv the Toiling 
solution of platinic chloride 10 carts- 

SS 1 ??^ 2 °W S; ^d water P 100u 
BS witt 7 e 1' Which is ren dered dka- 

I . S °- d ^ ! 7 e - ln this, 
alio work with zinc contact. 



one may 



strong batteries 

I. — Take borate of potash, 
by wci ght; chloride of platina 
distilled water, 1,000 parts. 

II. -Carbonate of soda, 250 rg*^ 
weight; chloride of platina, AU P w 
tilled water, 1,000 parts. ^ jg 

HI— Sulphocyanide of V&g, t* 
parts, by weight; chloride ^ P rts; do- 
nate of soda, ^ V 



parts; carbon 
tilled water, 1,000 parts. 

IV. — Borate of soda, 
weight; chloride of platina, 
tilled water, 1,000 parts. 



500 P af * S > 



by 



12 P 



arts! 



PLATING 



587 



cttVERING, SILVER-PLATING, 
DESILVERING : 

i - Silvering by Oxidation, under 
Jttn I 2s, under Plating. 
°* • p Silver-There are various 
for producing antique silver, 

^^fifSptf : T«»i& add some 

^ ioi de«d Fvory black or graphite. 

fil J e - ly P "?J soirits of turpentine and rub 

T ^ hrSSh dipped into this varnish 

^ ltH Cris ta be Seated. Allow to dry 
the objects to b c t of the 

f0I - a , n h wfth some rag, so that the black 
articles ™ wine p ^ Tf a softer 

gffdSSdT aPPly again with a dry 
hrush and wipe as the first time. The 
coating of black will be weaker and the 
shade handsomer. 

Britannia Silver -Plating. — I. — Ihe 
Jelf should first be cleaned an 1 then 
rubbed by means of a wet cloth witn a 
Sch of powder obtained by mixing to- 
Ker: titrate of silver, 1 part; cyanide 
| potassium, 2 parts; chalk, 5 parts 
Then wipe with a dry cloth, and polish 
well with rouge to give brilliancy. 

T j_By the electric method the metal 
is simply plunged into a hot saturated 
solution of crude potassium carbonate, 
and the plating is then done directly, 
using a strong electrical current. Ine 
potassium carbonate solution dissolves 
the surface of the britannia metal and 
thus enables- the silver to take a strong 
hold on the article. 

To Silver Brass, Bronze, Copper, etc. 
—I,— In order to silver copper, brass, 
bronze, or coppered metallic articles 
dissolve 10 parts of lunar caustic in 500 
parts of distilled water, and 35 parts ot 
potassium cyanide (98 per cent) in 500 
parts of distilled water; mix both solu- 
tions with stirring, heat to 176° to 194 
P. in an enameled vessel, and enter the 
articles, well cleansed of fat and impuri- 
ties, until a uniform coating has formed. 

II. — Zinc, brass, and copper are sil- 
vered by applying a paste of the follow- 
ing composition: Ten parts of s d ver 
nitrate dissolved in 50 parts of distilled 
water, and 9,5 parts of potassium cya- 
nide dissolved in distilled water; mix, 
stir, and filter. Moisten 100 parts of 
whiting and 400 parts of powdered tartar 
with enough of the above solution to 
make a paste-like mass, which is applied 
by means of a brush on the well-cleaned 
objects. After the drying of this coat- 
ing, rinse off, and dry in sawdust. 

III. — To silver brass and copper by 
friction, rub on the articles, previously 



AND | cleaned of grease, a paste of silver 



;±eiiiie(j ui grease, a paste oi suveT 
chloride, 10 parts; cooking salt, 20 parts; 
powdered tartar, 20 parts; and the nec- 
essary water, using a rag. 

Desilvering. — I. — It often happens in 
plating that, notwithstanding all pre- 
cautions, some pieces have failed and it 
is necessary to commence the work 
again. For removing the silver that has 
been applied, a rapid method is to take 
sulphuric acid, 100 parts, and nitrate of 
potash, 10 parts. Put the sulphuric 
acid and the nitrate of potash (saltpeter) 
in a vessel of stoneware or porcelain, 
heated on the water bath. When the 
silver has been removed from the cop- 
per, rinse the object several times and 
recommence the silvering. This bath 
may be used repeatedly, taking care each 
tima to put it in a stoppered bottle 
When it has been saturated with silve 
and has no more strength, decant th 
deposit, boil the liquor to dryness, ad 
the residue to the deposit, and melt m 
crucible to regenerate the metal. 

II. To dissolve the silver covering of 

a metallic object, a bath is made use of, 
composed of 66 per cent sulphun* acid 
3 parts, and 40 per cent nitric acid, 1 
part This mixture is heated to about 
176° F and the objects to be desilvered 
are suspended in it by means of a copper 
wire The operation is accomplished in 
a few seconds The objects are washed 
and then dried in sawdust. 

To Silver Glass Balls and Plate Glass. 
—The following is a method for silvering 
the glass balls which are used m ob* 
menfs in gardens glass panes, andoo^ 

tartaric aod "'^ons » uccessiveiy 

brown varnish. 

-Di^+injr I —Iron articles 

Iron Silver-Plating. A- solutiotl 

e plated ™**™™*$ 0 te being sil- 
of nitrate of mercurj ^ removed 

vered. . The quick fig 
by heating to 572 *. economize the 
£°er be £5 TdTpped fa a mixture of 



PLATING 



588 

of saver and ^ 

so, r d bvSh f to SOOpSts! by weight 
parte, by jcignt £ move &e bl k 

of water, trien w^c sample 
film of carbon and ^ ^Wered t 11 ^ 

dipped « Vd 8 °Srdi^to H. Krupp, 
to turn red. Accortti g cop- 
articles made of an alloy 

per, and jmc, sue n e i eC tric- 
T^th nickel? put into a solution of 
Hk^S u P sed for galvanm cop- 
Sg, and then electroplated. 
P n_A brilliant silver color may be 
imparted to iron (from which ^grease 
has been previously removed) by treat 
in* it with the following solution: Foity 
narts by weight, chloride of antimony, 
? 0 par£by weight, powdered arsemous 
acid; and 80 parts levigated hematite 
are mixed with 1,000 parts of 90 per 
cent alcohol and gently heated for half 
an hour on a water bath. A partial so- 
lution takes place, and a small cotton pad 
is then dipped in the liquid and applied 
with a gentle pressure to the iron. A 
thin film consisting of arsenic and ^ an- 
timony is precipitated, as described by 
Dr. Langbein, in his "Handbuch der 
galv. Metallniederschlage." The bril- 
liancy of the effect depends upon the 
care with which the iron has previously 
been polished. 

To Silver-Plate Metals. — I. — Nitrate 
of silver, 30 parts, by weight; caustic 

?>tash, 30 parts; distilled water, 100 parts, 
ut the nitrate of silver into the water; 
one-quarter hour afterwards add the pot- 
ash, and, when the solution is done, fil- 
ter. It is sufficient to dip the objects to 
be silvered into this bath, moving them 
about in it for 1 or 2 minutes at most; 
then rinsing and drying in sawdust. It 
is necessary to pickle the pieces before 
using the bath. To make the nitrate of 
silver one's self, take 30 parts of pure 
silver and 60 parts of nitric acid, and 
when the metal is dissolved add the 
caustic potash and the water. 

. — Kayser's silvering liquid, which 
is excellent for all kinds of metals, is 
prepared from lunar caustic, 11 parts; 
sodium hyposulphite, 20 parts; sal am- 
? 0 *K? C > 12 parts; whiting, 20 parts; and 
distilled water, £00 parts. The articles 
must be cleaned well. 

Mosaic Silver.-This compound con- 
sists of tin, 3 parts, by weight; bismuth, 

alC ?f''* nd merc ^ r y> H Parts. The 
alloy of rh ese metals f g pow £ ered finel 

JS"! TO of metals, paper, 
wood, etc. In order to impart to metals 



especially articles of copper and brass, aw 
appearance similar to silver, they ate 
made perfectly bright. The powder „* 
the mosaic silver is mixed with six ti me8 
the volume of bone ashes, adding enough 
water to cause a paste and rubbing tHis 
on the metallic surface by means 0 f » 
cork of suitable shape. In order to 
silver paper by means of this preparation 
it is ground with white of egg, diluted 
mucilage, or varnish, and treated like a 
paint- 
Pastes for Silvering.— I— Carbonate 
of lime, 65 parts; sea salt, GO parts; 
cream of tartar, 35 parts; nitrate o\ 
silver, 20 parts. Bray all in a mortar, 
not adding the carbonate of lime until 
the other substances are reduced to a 
fine powder. Next, add a little water to 
form a homogeneous paste, which is 

E reserved in blue bottles away from the 
ght. For use, put a little of this paste 
on a small pad and rub the article with it. 

II. — Articles of zinc, brass, or copper 
may also be silver-plated by applying to 
them a pasty mass of the following 
composition: 'First dissolve 10 parts, by 
weight, of nitrate of silver in 50 parts, by 
weight, of distilled water; also 25 parts, 
by weight, of potassium cyanide in suffi- 
cient distilled water to dissolve it. Pour 
the two together, stir well, and filter. 
Now 100 parts, by weight, of whiting or 
levigated chalk and 400 parts, by weight, 
of ootassium bitartrate, finely powdered, 
arc moistened with the above solution 
sufficiently to form a soft paste, which 
may be applied to the objects, previously 
well cleansed, with a brush. After this 
coating has dried well, rinse it ott, ana 
dry the object in clean sawdust, 



Resilveriug. — I. — Take 100 parts by 
weight, of distilled water and divide J 
into two equal portions. In the one o 
olve 10 parts of silver nitrate and mm 



s 

other 



25 parts of potassium. cyani 



ale 



The two solutions are reunited in a sin^ 
s soon as completed. J^b 
pare a mixture of 100 parts of ]& 



white, passed through a fine ?iej e ' j 
of tartar, pulverized,^ 



powder 



parts of cream ~ 

1 part of mercury. This r .. 
stirred in a portion of the above ^ 
so as to form a rather thick paste. ^| 
composition is applied by meA ? S 0 bje ct 
finger, covered with a rag, on tJ1 ^ ust b& 
to be silvered. The application i ^ dfV 
as even as possible. Let the " J ^ 0 f 
and wash in pure water. T he 
powder is removed with a brusft- 

II.— The following is a P r °Pf ^rtaig 
when the jeweler has to repai r g pJ1 
pieces from which silvering has 



PLATING 



589 



. „ an d which he would like to 
^ places, anu havi reco urse to the 

repair wltn ," neC ially without having to 
battery, f^^^J or pearls: Take 
5 parts, by weight; 



ffo^thfSoaes 

ta . rt f silver, »5 i > —* " ■ 

» itra jL of potassium, 50 parts ; cream of 

&t» £*f Pa " S Whlte> * 



200 parts; 




fC Stilled water anu ^j^— — 

Tw hilf" mix the two Liquids; next 

f « well hfa mortar the mercury, Pans 

b hite and cream of tartar. Preserve 

V 1 ' ^.iots of these two operations 

the Zlh anc I when you wish to use 

make a rather soft paste of the two, 
them make a r or & 

on P t^ porlion to be silvered. Let 
dry and subsequently rub With a soft 
brush. 

Tin Silver-Plating.— Prepare a solu- 
tion of 3 parts, by weight of bismuth 
subnitrate in 10 parts of nitric acid of 
1 4 specific gravity, to which add a solu- 
tion of 10 parts of tartar and 40 parts of 
hydrochloric acid in 1,000 parts of water. 
In the mixture of these solutions im- 
merse the tin articles freed from grease 
and oxide. The pulverous b«muth 
precipitated on the surface is rubbed otr, 
whereupon the objects appear dark steel 
gray. For silvering prepare a mixture 
of 10 parts of silver chloride; 30 parts of 
cooking salt; 20 parts of tartar, and 100 
parts of powdered chalk, which is rubbed 
in a slightly moist state on the bismuth 
surface of the tin articles, using a flannel 
rag. The silver separates only in a 
very thin layer, and must be protected 
against power and light before tarnish- 
ing by a coating of preservative or cel- 
luloid varnish. 

Zinc Contact Silver-Plating. — Accord- 
ing to Buchner, 10 parts, by weight, of 
silver nitrate is dissolved in water and 
precipitated by the addition of hydro- 
chloric acid in the form of silver chloride, 
•which is washed several times in clean 
■water; now dissolve 70 parts, by weight, 
o£ spirit of sal ammoniac in water, and 
add to it 40 parts, by weight, of soda crys- 
tals, 40 parts, by weight, of pure potas- 
sium cyanide, and 15 parts, by weight, of 
common salt. Now thin down the 
compound with sufficient distilled water 
to make a total of 1,000 parts. 

Tin Plating of Lead. — Lead plates are 
best tinned by plating. For this purpose 
a table with a perfectly even iron surface 
and provided with vertical raised edges 
to prevent the melted metal from flowing 
ployed. The lead is poured 



on this table, and covered with grease to 
prevent oxidation of the surface. As 
soon as the lead is congealed, melted tin 
is poured over it, care being taken that 
the tin is sufficiently heated to remeltthe 
surface of the lead and combine thorough- 
ly with it. m When the plate is sufficiently 
cooled, it is turned over, and the lower 
surface treated in the same way. The 
plate, thus tinned on both sides, is then 
placed between rollers, and can be rolled 
into very thin sheets without injury to 
the tin coating. These sheets, doubly 
coated with tin by this process, are spe- 
cially adapted for lining cases intended 
for the transport of biscuits,, chocolate, 
candies, tea, snuff, etc. If lead plates 
are only to be tinned superficially, the„ 
are heated to a tolerably high tempera- 
ture, and sprinkled with powdered rosin; 
melted tin is then rubbed on the surfac 
of the plate with a ball of tow. It i 
advisable to give the lead a fairly thic 
coating of tin, as the latter is rendere 
thinner by the subsequent rolling. 

VARIOUS RECIPES: 

To Ascertain whether an Article 
ITickeled, Tinned, or Silvered.— Whe 
necessary to ascertain quickly and accur 
ately the nature of the white metal cover- 
ing an object, the following process «' 
be found to give excellent results: 

Nickeled Surface.— If the article has 
nickel coating, a drop of hydrochlo 
acid, deposited on a spot clean and tr 
from grease, will quickly develop a gree 
ish tint. If the object is kept fox -5 or 
minutes in a solution composed ot o 
parts o sea salt and 110 parts of water, 
ft will receive a very characteristic ied- 
J- wir.t A drop of sulphuret of so- 
^Voce's not change a nieLled surf ace. 
Tinned Surface. — A tinned object ntay 
^ b /ven«d h f "wS 
cblorrc f. c > d ,-. ^Vilt solution, used 

^feodVntK^- 

a crf^rp In the case of a sil- 

SUvered Surface, in * ^ 

vered article a drop 0 ^\ l droch loric 
remove the silver wMe ny ^ 

acid will s .^ r ^ y Zf e aC n o effect. The 

* m blacken 11 

rapidly- 

PLATINIZING: 
See Plating- 



PLATINOTYPE PAPER: 
See photography- 



>90 



automobile poushMUSS, bronze, COPPER, Etc . 



Polishes 
WISHES FOR AUTOMOBILES : 

.-Cedar Oil $ Si™ 

Turpentine £ t 

Ammonia Water x £ 

Venice Turpentine . . . ounces 

Dissolve the Venice *7^™*]g- 

|sh with a dry cloth. 
„.,Turp e ntme . J g"* 

Oil of Caraway Seeds 
Sufficient to make six gallons 

Neither Caraway ".oil « 
any solvent properties as far as 
nig varnish gum is concerned; tu F ' 
ha| and there is if* 
this formula to make it t£ hite * "J 1 *"" 
actually affecting the gloss prejudicially 
to any great extent. 

III. — Boiled Linseed Oil.-.l pound 
Benzine 1 <I uart 

'Cedar Oil 6 ounces 

Mix and apply with a sponge, running 
only one way of the paint. Let stand 
for half an hour and polish with a dry 
cloth. 

IV. — Cheap Auto-Body Polish.— An 

excellent auto-body polish may be made 
very cheap. Buy a quart of paraffin flush- 
ing oil and add to it half a gallon of 
gasoline, The gasoline acts as a very 
effective cleaner and the paraffin gives 
the required lustre. 

V. — Enamel (Black) for Auto. — 

3 pints Good Varnish 
3 quarts Turpentine 
8 ounces best Japan dryer 
1 ounce Carbon Black 
1 ounce (commercial) Ether 

Mix thoroughly the varnish and tur- 
pentine. Then add the other ingredients, 
mixing thoroughly by stirring. If another 
color is desired in place of black, use 
any other colored enamel. 

tW« £i applyitl & car should be washed 
thorough y and allowed to dry. Apply 

aortal™ W i th a P iECe ° f ^ <£SZ 
uotn, go over the surfn^ ^ +k~ Car once 



and be™? V* The , mixtl ire will spread 
oecome even and smooth. 



Polishes for Aluminum.--!.^ 

Mouray recommends the use of an emul- 
sion of equal parts of rum and oliv e 0 j] 
made by shaking these liquids togethw 
in a bottle. When a burnishing stooe ia 
used, the peculiar black streaks first 
appearing should not cause vexation 
since they do not injure the metal i n th e 
least, and may be removed with a woolen 
rag. The object in question may also 
be brightened in potash lye, in which 
case, however, care must be taken not to 
have the lye too strong. For cleaning 
purposes benzol has been found best. 

XL — Aluminum is susceptible of taking 
a beautiful polish, but it is not white 
like that of silver or nickel, rather 
slightly bluish, like tin. The shade can 
be improved. First, the grease is to be 
removed from the object with pumice 
stone. Then, for polishing, use is made 
of an emery paste mingled with tallow, 
forming cakes which are rubbed on the 
polishing brushes. Finally, rouge pow- 
der is employed with oil of turpentine. 

POLISHES FOR BRASS, BRONZE, 
COPPER, ETC.: 

Objects of polished copper, bronze, 
brass, and other alloys of copper tarnish 
through water and it is sometimes neces- 
sary to give them again their bright ap- 
pearance. Pickle the articles in an acid 
bath; wash them next in a neutral bath; 
dry them, and subsequently rub them 
with a polishing powder. Such is the 
general formula; the processes indicated 
below are but variants adapted to divers 
cases and recommended by disinterested 
experimenters: 

Sharp Polishes.— The following three 
may be used on dirty brasses, copper 
articles, etc., where scratching is not oo- 
jectionable: 

I. — Quartz, sand, pow- 
dered and levigat- 

ed 20 par 

Paris red 30 part 

Vaseline 50 P art j 

Mix intimately and make a pomaae- 

II. — Emery flour, finest 

gS« 

Pans red ri 

Mutton suet « gg 

Oleic acid * u * 

III.— Levigated emery - 

powder iU * 

Anhydrous sodium tg 

carbonate P jtS 

water "! p .: :::::: !> 




POLISHES 



591 



, Articles.— Make a mixture of 
C0 / P r fd diarcoal, very fine, 4 parts; 
P°. W -,of wine, 3 parts; and essence of 



spirit of wu 0 iC ; n ; ts r "" To this add water 
tur] 
in ' 

l\be°o^=ts""hthi S mixta, 



8 P' ntine 2 P arts - iG """ii * 1 
turp ent ne, * £ q{ - tg welght of sorre j 

in which one- 1 ^ been gtirred) an d 

salt or oxaui- » 



Articles. — Boil the objects in 
B Tvf wa'h in plenty of water, and 
^V-wdust. 
Witrhlv Oxidized Bronzes.— First dip 
H 5 „l soda Ive, then in a bath con- 
^Tl part o? sulphuric acid to 12 
water. Rinse in clean water, 
Pa ?ne4 M water containing a little am- 
monia Dry and rub With a polishing 
powder or paste. 

POLISHES FOR FLOORS. 

i —Throw a handful of permanganate 
notash crystals into a pail of boiling 
water.and apply the mixture as hot as 
nossTble to tZ floor with a large flat 
Csh If the stain produced is not 
dark 'enough, apply one or two more 
coats as desired, leaving each wash to 
dry thoroughly before applying another 
If it is desired to polish the surface with 
beeswax, a coat of size should be applied 
to the boards before staining, as tins 
gives depth and richness to the color. 
After 3 or 4 days, polish well with a mix- 
ture of turpentine and beeswax. _ A few 
cents will cover the cost of both size and 
permanganate of potash. 

II— Potash. 1 part 

Water * parts 

Yellow beeswax . . \ . 5 parts 
Hot water, a sufficient quantity. 
Emulsify the wax by boiling it in the 
water in which the potash has been dis- 
solved; stir the whole time. The exact 
amount of boiling is determined by the 
absence of any free water in the mass. 
Then remove the vessel from the fire, 
and gently pour in a little boiling water, 
and stir the mixture carefully. If a fat- 
like mass appears without traces of 
watery particles, one may know the mass 
is in a fit condition to be liquefied by the 
addition of more hot water without the 
water separating. Then put in the water 
to the extent of 200 to 225 parts, and 
reheat the compound for 5 to 10 minutes, 
without allowing it to reach the boiling 
point. Stir constantly until the mixture 
18 cool, so as to prevent "the separation of 
the wax, when a cream-like mass results 
which gives a quick and brilliant polish 
on woodwork, if applied in the usual way, 
piece of flannel rag, and polished 
with another piece of flannel. 



Colored Floor Polishes. — Yellow ; Cans- 
tie soda solution, 7^ parts, mixed with 1£ 
to 2 parts of finely powdered ocher, heated 
with 2£ parts of yellow wax, and stirred 
until uniformly mixed. A reddish-brown 
color may be obtained by adding % parts 
of powdered umber to the above mixture. 

Nut Brown. — I. — Natural umber, \ 
part; burnt umber, 1 part; and yellow 
ocher, 1 part, gives a fine red-brown 
color when incorporated with the same 
wax and soda mixture. 



II. — Tieat 5 pounds of wax with 15 
pounds of caustic soda lye of 3° Be. so 
that a uniform wax milk results; boil 
with \ pound of annatto, 3 pounds of 
yellow ocher, and 2 pounds of burnt 
umber. 

Mahogany Brown. — Boil 5 pounds of 
wax with 15 pounds of caustic soda lye 
as above. Then add 7 pounds of burnt 
umber very finely powdered, making it 
into a uniform mass by boiling again. 

Yellow Ocher. — The wax milk obtained 
as above is boiled with 5 pounds, of yel- 
low ocher. 

The mass on cooling has the consist- 
ency of a salve. If it is to be used for 
rubbing the floor it is stirred with suf- 
ficient boiling water so as to form a 
fluid of the consistency of thin syrup or 
oil This is applied very thin on the 
floor, using a brush; then it is allowed 
to dry only half way, and is rubbed with 
a stiff floor brush. The pohshing is 
continued with a woolen rag until a 
mirror-like gloss is obtained. It is best 
not to Paint the whole room and then 
Wh, but the deals should be taken one 
after the other, otherwise . the coat ng 



ra g, « »~-- e - If h are p arque 

French ^^ e ^/.£o&Ed 
ished must be made n P ^f r om the surface 
all irrcgulariUes removed from t work ^ 

with glass P^^'^fto r nb off all super- 
Unseed oil, takin|care od 

fluous oil. (if tn l^ Darts a slight color.) 
should be used, as it & adding, 

Then Prepare ^ wad^ >r r ubb^ 
taking care t^fj* red pour on it a 
After the rubber is i prepa £ coyer j 

^V^ofll 0 ^ - g (new will 



on 
by 



ml 



592 



POLISHES 



small drop of oil 



n< £ X firmer on the surface of the rub 
with the finger o mo vong 

r> in h P nes making a kind of fig- 

* her nf eiskt over' The work. Be very 
ure of "gilt " v { not allowed to 

careful that the rub D cr j s n 
stick or the work will be spam. 

tfen be Tubbed down smooth with very 
fine emery paper. Then give another 
eXt erf polish If not smooth enough 
emery paper again. .This process must 
continue until tVgram is fed up Sm- 
ish off with a clean rubber with only 
spirit on it (no polish , when a clear 
bright surface sfiould be the result 
Grlat care must be taken not to put the 
polish on too freely, or you will get a 
rough surface. After a little ; practice 
all difficulties will vanish. lhe best 
French polish will be found to be one 
made only from good pale orange shel- 
lac and spirit, using 3 pounds of shellac 
for each gallon of spirit. The latter 
should be of 63 to 64° over-proof. A 
weak spirit is not suitable and does not 
make a good polish. A few drops of 
pure linseed oil make the polish work 
more freely. 

POLISHES FOR FURNITURE. 

First make a paste to fill cracks as fol- 
lows: Whiting, plaster of Paris, pumice 
stone, litharge, equal parts; japan dryer, 
boiled linseed oil, turpentine, coloring 
matter of sufficient quantity. Rub the 
solids intimately with a mixture of 1 part 
of the japan, % parts of the linseed oil, 
and 3 parts of turpentine, coloring to 
suit with Vandyke brown or sienna. 
Lay the filling on with a brush, let it set 
for about 20 minutes, and then rub off 
clean except where it is to remain. In 
2 or 3 days it will be hard enough to 
polish. B 

After the surface has been thus pre- 
pared, the application of a coat of first- 
class copal varnish is in order It is 
recommended that the varnish be ap- 
Ul a ^erately warm room, as it 
is injured by becoming chilled in drying. 

so m fi'^ e b J eSt reS ^ lts in varnishm! 
some skill and experience are required 
Ihe varnish must be kept in an evenly 

TooS te 3Pf 1 ratu ™. and on neitK 
too plentifully nor too gingerly. 

After a satisfactorily smooth and reg- 



ular surface has been obtained, tW I 
polishing proper may be done. This 
may be accomplished by manual labor 
and dexterity, or consist in the appli CEU . 
tion of a very thin, even coat of a very 
fine, transparent varnish. 

If the band-polishing method be ' 
preferred, it may be pursued by rubbing 
brisklv and thoroughly with the followt 
ing finishing polish: 

I. — Alcohol 8 ounces 

Shellac . . ■ ■ £ drachm 3 

Gum benzoin 2 drachms 

Best poppy oil % drachms 

Dissolve the shellac and gum in the 
alcohol in a warm place, with frequent 
agitation, and, when cold, add the poppy 
oil. This may be applied on the end of a 
cylindrical rubber made by tightly rolling 
a* piece of flannel which has been torn^ not 
cut, into strips 4 to 6 inches wide. 

A certain "oily sweating" of articles 
of polished wood occurs which has been 
ascribed to the oil used in polishing, hut 
has been found to be due to a waxy sub- 
stance present in shellac, which is often 
used in polishing. During the operation 
of polishing, this wax enters into close 
combination with the oil, forming a soft, 
greasy mass, which prevents the varnish 
from ever becoming really hard. This 
greasy matter exudes in the course of time. 
The remedy is to use only shellac from 
which the vegetable wax has been com- 
pletely removed. This is accomplished 
by making a strong solution of the shellac 
in alcohol and then shaking it up wifj 
fresh seed lac or filtering it through seed 
lac. In this way the readily soluble 
rosins in the seed lac are dissolved, ana 
with them traces of colonng matter. M 
the same time the vegetable wax, wiuc 
is only slightly soluble, is deposited, m 
shellac solution which has exchanged i s 
vegetable wax for rosin is not yet su«a0| 
for fine furniture polishing. It 1S j 
sufficiently taken up by the wood, j an 
an essential oil must be added to gi^^ 
the necessarv properties, one oi t 
oils to employ for this purpose oe » 
that of rosemary. The following recip 
is given: i 4 

II.— Twenty pounds of shellac «^ 
pounds of benzoin are dissolve" , t( J 
smallest possible quantity of alcox ^ 
gether with 1 pound of rosemary 01 * u gb 
solution then obtained is filtered 1 ^ ^ 
seed lac so as to remove whatever 
ble wax may be present. 



Red Furniture Paste. — 

Soft water ^ 

Turpentine " 



pints 
pints 



POLISHES 



593 



„ _ .... 3 pounds 

Beeswax.. U ounces 

White wax " c 

White soap }° ounces 

rT.j r 12 ounces 

Red lead . 

rut up soap and dissolve in water by 
■A heaf then evaporate to 6 pounds. 
S d i! the waxes and add turpentine m 
M A h red lead has been stirrecf, pour into 
r^ th toaP solution, and stir until it is 
thls the sojiH darker c(jlor is wanted 

Bee chwood Furniture.— The wood of 
the red beech is known to acquire, by the 
f s f ordinary shellac polish a dirty 
Sow color, and by the use of white 
S\sh prepared from bleached shellac, 
K unsightfy ^ray-white color, There- 
fore where light colors are desired, only 
filtered shellac polish .should be em- 
ployed, and in order to impart some fire 
Re naturally dull color of the beech- 
wood the admixture of a solution oi 
dragon's blood in alcohol for a red shade, 
or turmeric in alcohol for yellow may be 
used. A compound of the red and yel- 
low liquids gives a good orange shade. 
A few trials will soon show how much 
coloring matter may be added to the 
polish. 

Polishes for Glass. — I. — Mix calcined 
magnesia with purified benzine to a semi- 
iiquid paste. Hub the glass with this 
mixture by means of a cotton wad, until 
it is bright. 

II. — Crush to powder cologne chalk, 
60 parts, by weight; tripoli, 30 parts, by 
weight; bole, 15 parts, by weight. For 
use moisten the glass a little, dip a linen 
rag into the powder and rub the glass 
Until it is clean. 

HI. — Tin ashes may be employed 
with advantage. The glass is rubbed 
with this substance and then washed off 
with a piece of soft felt. In this manner 
a very handsome polish is obtained. 

Polishes for Ivory, Bone, etc. — I. — 
First rub with a piece of linen soaked 
with a paste made of Armenian bole 
and oleic acid. Wash with Marseilles 
soap, dry, rub with a chamois skin, and 
ntially render it bright with an old piece 
of silk. If the ivory is scratched, it may 
be smoothed by means of English red 
stuff on a cloth, or even with a piece of 

5 lass if the scratches are rather deep, 
n the hollow parts of ivory objects the 
paste can be made to penetrate by means 
of an old toothbrush. 

H. — Tortoise-shell articles have a way 
Of getting dull and dingy looking. To 
r epohsh dip the finger in linseed oil and 



rub over the whole surface. Yery little 
oil should be used, and if the article is a 
patterned one it may be necessary to use 
a soft brush to get it into the crevices. 
Then rub with the palm, of the hand 
until all oil has disappeared, and the 
shell feels hot and looks aright and shiny. 

Marble Polishing. — Polishing includes 
five operations. Smoothing the rough- 
ness left on the surface is done by rub- 
bing the marble with a piece of moist 
sandstone; for moldings either wooden 
or iron runners are used, crushed, and 
wet sandstone, or sand, more or less fine, 
according to the degree of polish re- 
quired, being thrown under them. The 
second process is continued rubbing with 

Eieces of pottery without enamel, which 
ave only been baked once, also wet. If 
a brilliant polish is required, Gothland 
stone instead of pottery is used, and 
potter's clay or fuller's earth is placed 
beneath the muller. This operation is 
performed upon granites and porphyry 
with emery and a lead muller, the upper 
part of which is incrusted with the mix- 
ture until reduced by friction to clay or 
impalpable powder. As the polish de- 
pends almost entirely upon these twe 
operations, care must be taken that thej 
are performed with a regular and steady 
movement. When the marble has re- 
ceived the first polish, the flaws, cavities, 
and soft spots are sought out and filled 
with mastic of a suitable color. 

This mastic is usually composed oi a 
mixture of yellow wax, rosim and Bur- 
gundy pitch, mixed with a little sulphur 
and plaster passed through a fine sieve 
which gives it the consistency of a thick 
paste; to color this paste to a tone anal- 
ogous to the ground tints or natural 
clment of the material upon which it i 
placed, lampblack and rouge, with 
little of the prevailing color of the m 
terial are added. For green and rec 
marbles this mastic is sometimes made 



^ F^l^men'ts'of marble are intrc 
crushed fragmenxs oi 
duced into the ceme £ bat for hn e 
bles the same color* are ^pioy wil 
are / C e d the n same* tote Ts the ground; 
ftfgum lac is added to give it body anc 

^ThTSird operation in polishing coi 

JX ^^^^^^ 
pumice stone ; lv U "„ ure d unmixed wit 
Lfd g Tof xhe" ESS ''process, callec 



POLISHES 



tor 'J-Ptarth/and ^vicg tiles, 
works, and tor ^ earu if A t u£ mse lves to 
b le workers confin themsel 

this polish. > wne i t . g gubstl . 

holes or grams, a lead muii tQ 

Seaef only, with quat 

time take another cushion of dry rags, 
Sb with it lightly, brush away any for- 
Sm substance which might scratch the 
marble, and a perfect polish will be ob- 
taiaed. A little alum mixed with the 
water used penetrates the pores of the 
marble, and gives it a speedier polish. 
This polish spots very easily and is soon 
tarnished and destroyed by dampness. 
It is necessary when purchasing articles 
of polished marbles to subject them to 
the test of water; if there is too much 
alum, the marble absorbs the water and 
a whitish spot is left. 

POLISHING POWDERS. 

Polishing powders are advantageously 
prepared according to the following re- 
cipes: 

I. — Four pounds magnesium carbon- 
ate, 4 pounds chalk, and 4s pounds 
rouge are intimately mixed. 

II. — Four pounds magnesium carbon- 
ate are mixed with J pound fine rouge. 

Ill- — Five pounds fine levigated whit- 
ing and a pounds Venetian red are 
ground together. 

IV. — Kieselguhr 4£ pounds 

Putty powder 14 pounds 

Pipe clay 14 pounds 

Tartaric acid Impounds 

Powder the acid, mix well with the 
others. This is styled "free from mer- 
cury, poisonous mineral acids, alkalies, 
°* grit. It may be tinted with 13 
ounces of oxide of iron if desired. 



0.— Kieselguhr. 56 pouilda 

Paraffine oil ....... . 3 gallons 

Methylated spirit. . . 1 ^ gallons 

Camphorated spirit. * gallon 

Turpentine oil } gallon 

Liquid ammonia 

fort... 3 pints 

HI. — Rotten stone 10 av, ounces 

Paraffine 8 av. ounces 

Kerosene (coal oil) 16 fluidouncea 
Oil of mirbane enough to p er , 
fume. 

Melt the paraffine, incorporate the 
rotten stone, add the kerosene, and the 
oil of mirbane when cold. 

IV. — Oxalic acid ^ av. ounce 

Rotten stone. . . . . 10 av. ounces 
Kerosene (coal oil) 80 fluidoimees 

Paraffine 2 av. ounces 

Pulverize the oxalic acid and mix it 
with rotten stone; melt the paraffine, add 
to it the kerosene, and incorporate the 
powder; when cool, add oil of mirbane 
or lavender to perfume. 

Pout the ammonia into the oil, methy- 
lated spirits, and turpentine, add the 
camphorated spirit and mix with the 
kieselguhr. To prevent setting, keep 
well agitated during filling. The color 
may be turned red by using a little ses- 
quioxide of iron and less kieselguhr. 
Apply with a cloth, and when dry use 
another clean cloth or a brush. 

Polishing Soaps. — 

I._p ow dered pipe clay 112 pounds 

Tallow soap 10 V mn f 

Tartaric acid l J pounds 

Grind until pasty, afterwards press into 
blocks by the machine. 

II.— Levigated flint 60 pounds 

Whiting 5-2 pounds 

Tallow 20 pound 

Caustic soda 5 pounds 

Water a ~ S a llon 

Dissolve the soda in water and ad<^ 
the tallow; when saponified, stir 
others, pressing as before. 



, r iron if desired. 
Liquid Polishes. — 

!• — Malt vin e gar 4 

Lemon juice , * 1 

Paraffine oil. ....... 1 

Kieselguhr '•• " ^ 

Powdered bath brick 3 

t->u lemon g 



gallons 
gallon 
gallon 
pounds 
pounds 
ounces 



-Saponified cocoanut 
oil 56 



pou 



nds 

ds 



Kieselguhr 1| P ^ 

Alum 2? noun-ds 

Flake white }| 



Tartaric acid 
Make as before 



is 



IV.— Tallow soap •■■ 98 P 0 ^ 

Liquid glycerine un ds 

s? a .P 1SP0 1 H S 



Whiting SEriffl* 

Levigated flint }J P° 

Powdered pipe clay- 14 " 



POLISHES 



595 



^TAL POLISHES: 

wrhite petroleum 
I-—"". 11 90 pounds 

J eU (:,',u " ... 30 pounds 

wax it*" 

Refi rw h -°- io p° unds 

whiting •■ „ nAnnHs 

Sodium hyposulphite 8 pounds 

Mdt and jelly, stir in others and 

^THs an undecided point as to whether 
Xt *S niste is better than one with- 
1 SCen f ,?m P e " The latter is added merely 
the 'nasty smell of some of the 
10 tt used and it is not very nice to 
E^Tpoons. etc , smelling, even tasting 
fmirbane so perhaps citronelleis best 
foS purpose. It is likely to be more 
Lure The dose of scent h usually at 
the rate of 4 ounces to the hundred- 
weight. 

n —Dehydrated soda. . 5 parts 

Curd soap 20 parts 

Emery flour 100 parts 

To be stirred together on a water bath 
with water, 100 parts, until soft. 

HI —Turpentine 1 part 

Emery flour 1 part 

Paris red 2 parts 

Vaseline 2 parts 

Mix well and perfume. 

IV.— Stearine 8 to 9 parts 

Mutton suet 32 to 38 parts 

Stearine oil 2 to 2.5 parts 

Melt together and mix with Vienna 

chalk, in fine powder, 48 to 60 parts; 

Paris red, 20 parts. 

V. — Rotten stone 1 part 

Iron subcarbonate.. 3 parts 
Lard oil, a sufficient quantity. 

VI. — Iron oxide 10 parts 

Pumice stone 32 parts 

Oleic acid, a sufficient quantity. 

VII- — Soap, cut fine . ..... 16 parts 

Precipitated chalk. . 2 parts 
Jewelers' rouge. ... 1 part 

Cream of tartar .... 1 part 

Magnesium carbon- 
ate 1 part 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the soap in the smallest 
quantity of water over a water bath. 
Add the othej 



— «dier ingredients to the solu- 
tion while still hot, stirring all the time 
!* make sure of complete homogeneity, 
four masg into a wit k gca ii ow 

3l <ies, and afterwards cut into cubes. 



Non-Explosive Liquid Metal Polish. — 
Although m a liquid form, it does not 
necessarily follow that a liquid polish ia 
less economical than pastes, because the 
efficiency of both is dependent upon the 
amount of stearic or oleic acid they con- 
tain, and a liquid such as that given be- 
low is as rich in this respect as most of 
the 1 pastes, especially those containing 
much mineral jelly and earthy matters 
which are practically inert, and can only 
be considered as filling material. Thus 
it is a fact that an ounce of fluid polish 
may possess more polishing potency than 
an equal weight of the paste. Propor- 
tions are: Sixteen pounds crude oleic acid; 
4 pounds tasteless mineral oil; 5 pounds 
kieselguhr; 1^ ounces lemon oil. Make 
the earthy matter into a paste with the 
mixed fluids and gradually thin out, 
avoiding lumps. Apply with one rag, 
and finish with another. 

Miscellaneous Metal Polishes. — I. — 
Articles of polished copper, such as clocks, 
stove ornaments, etc., become tarnished 
very quickly. To restore their brilliancy 
dip a brush in strong vinegar and brush 
the objects to be cleaned. Next pass 
through water and dry in sawdust. A 
soap water, in which some carbonate of 
soda has been dissolved, will do the sam" 
service. 

II. This is recommended for ma- 
chinery by the chemical laboratory of 
the industrial museum of Batavia: 

Oil of turpentine 15 parts 

Oil of stearine 25 parts 

Jewelers' red -25 parts 

Animal charcoal, of 

superior quality.. . . 45 parts 
Alcohol is added to that mixture in 
such a quantity as to render * a mo 
liauid, then by means of a brush rt P put 
on those parts that are to be polished. 
When ^the alcohol has dried, the remain- 
W cover is rubbed with a mixture > of 
45 parts of animal charcoal and 25 parts 
jewelers' red. The rubbed . parts will 
become quite clean and bright. 

IIL-The ugly spots Y^f^fl 
ii^m^lves on nickel-plated ou- 
show ^^S/renioved with a mix- 
r t3 Ji y wt sulpLric acid and 50 parts 

dry with sawdust wdered . 

IV.-Crocus dnej ^ ^ 
when applied with cnam thel r 

S^^thS°»?l5i«ri-« surface 
bnlhancy wu ^ ^ ^ 



V, — Articles 



POLISHES 



PSIipil 

JhSS poHsSing ^stances may be very 

fin VT__To polish watch cases, take two 
glasses wn/large opemngs preferably 
two preserving jars with ground glass 
cover? Into one of the glass vessels 
Pr l part of spirit of sa ammoniac 
and 3 parts water, adding a little orai 
TJj barrel soap and stirring everything 
well Fill the other glass one half with 
SShoL Now lay the case to be cleaned 
wfth springs and all, into the first-named 
Hquid anZ allow to remain therein for 
aVJout 10 to 20 seconds. After pro- 
tracted use this time may be extended 
to several minutes. Now remove the 
case, quickly brush it with water and 
soap and lay for a moment into the alco- 
hol in the second vessel. After drying 
off with a clean cloth heat over a solder- 
ing flame for quick drying and the case 
will now look almost as clean and neat 
as a new one. The only thing that may 
occur is that a polished metal dome 
may become tarnished, but this will only 
happen if either the mixture is too strong 
or the case remains in it too long, both 
of which can be easily avoided with a 
little practice. Shake before using. 

VII. — This is a cleanser as well as 
polisher: 

Prepared chalk . . 2 parts 

Water of ammonia 2 parts 

Water sufficient to make. 8 parts 
The ammonia saponifies the grease 
usually present. 

It must be pointed out that the alkali 
present makes this preparation somewhat 
undesirable to handle, as it will affect the 
skin if allowed too free contact. 
, The density of the liquid might be 
increased by the addition of soap; the 
solid would, of course, then remain 
longer in suspension. 

* J. 111 ; — Ser viettes Magiques. —These 
iabnes for polishing articles of metal con- 
sist ot pure wool saturated with soap and 
tripoli, and dyed with a little coralline, 
of AL are -fi roduced b y dissolving 4 parts 
addYntT tleS /°? P in 20 P arts ° f water, 
Siei & ? a /W tr P° U and saturating a 

wide w tW ?, ln ^ hes lon S a » d * in <*es 
wide with it, allowing to dry. 



IX.— In order to easily produce a m a 
polish on small steel articles use fin 
powdered oil stone, ground with turp en t 
tine. 

Polishes for Pianos. — 

I. — Alcohol, 95 per cent. . 300 p ar ts 

Benzol. 700 p ar t s 

Gum benzoin 8 parts 

Sandarae 16 p arts 

Mix and dissolve. Use as ' French 
polish. 

II. — Beeswax. 2,500 parts 

Potassium carbon- 
ate 25 parts 

Oil of turpentine.. , . 4,000 parts 
Water, rain or dis- 
tilled 4,500 parts 

Dissolve the potassium carbonate in 
1,500 parts of the water and in the solu- 
tion boil the wax, shaved up, until the 
latter is partially saponified, replacing 
the water as it is driven off by evapora- 
tion. When this occurs remove from the 
fire and stir until cold. Now add the 
turpentine little by little, and under con- 
stant agitation, stirring until a smooth, 
homogeneous emulsion is formed. When 
this occurs add the remainder of the 
water under constant stirring. If_ a 
color is wanted use alkanet. root, letting 
it macerate in the oil of turpentine be- 
fore using the latter (about an ounce to 
the quart is sufficient). This prepara- 
tion is said to be one of the best polishes 
known. The directions are very simple: 
First wash the surface to be polished, 
rinse, and dry. Apply the paste as even- 
ly and thinlv as possible over a portion ot 
the surface," then rub off well with a sott 
woolen cloth. 

Polishes for Silverware.— The best pol- 
ish for silverware— that is, the polisj 
that, while it cleans, does not too - rapdiy 
abrade the surface— is levigated cha *. 
either alone or with some vegetable aci| 
like tartaric, or with alum. 1M 
metal polishes, such as tripoli (d^toinat 
ous earth), finely ground P uml ^il th&t 
etc., cut away the surface so rapid? 
a few cleanings wear through orw 
plating. 

I._Whitelead. $ P a f£ 

Chalk, levigated.... SO part* 
Magnesium carbon- . 

ate »P»* 

Aluminum oxide..-- J P 

-r a ,° ' *, 2 parts 
Jewelers rouge * r . je , 

Each of the ingredients must 

duced to an impalpable P oW< .^' se ver* 1 

carefully, and sifted through sii*. 



POLISHES 



597 



ppure a perfect mixture, and to 
Jl possibility of. leaving in the 
^ 0ld A Anything that might scratch the 
V°* Ae "old surface. This may be left 
silver org" ' fornlj or incorporated 
iP ^P°iade into a paste with glycer- 
* ithS ° ShS similar material. The ob- 
m. *JjSta«« with yaselme or greasy 
iection ^ that after cleaning the object 
s0 bstances b d ^ goap and ^ter, while 
m ustbescni<J , rinsing and running 
withslj Sant £ cW the & object. The 



II. 



2 parts 
4 parts 



-Chalk, levigated. • ■ ■ 
Oil of turpentine... . 
Stronger ammonia 

water ■ * P a " s 

Water ■ 10 P arts 

Mix the ammonia and oil of turpen- 
tinJby agitation, and rub up the : chalk m 
i Vtiii-p Fina y rub in the water 
Sdu ay or mi b/ agitation. Three 
g fi each of powdered tartaric acid and 
S rSh 1 part of powdered alum 
make a cheap and quick silver cleaning 
powder. 

HI —Mix 2 parts of beech wood ashes 
withyfo of a part of Venetian soap and 
% parts of common salt m 8 parts of ram 
water Brush the silver with this, using 
a pretty stiff brush. A solution of crys- 
tallized permanganate of potash is often 
recommended, or even the spirits of 
hartshorn, for removing the grayish 
violet film which forms upon the surface 
of the silver. Finally, when there are 
well-determined blemishes upon the 
surface of the silver, they may be soaked 
4 hours in soapmakers' lye, then cover 
them with finely powdered gypsum 
which has been previously moistened 
with vinegar, drying well before a fire; 
now rub them with something to remove 
the powder. Finally, they are to be 
rubbed again with very dry bran. 

POLISHES FOR STEEL AND IRON. 

The polishing of steel must always 
be preceded by a thorough smoothing, 
either with oilstone dust, fine emery, or 
coarse rouge. If any lines are left to be 
erased by means of fane rouge, the oper- 
ation becomes tedious and is rarely suc- 
cessful. The oilstone dust is applied on 
&n iron or copper polisher. When it is 
esired to preserve the angles sharp, at 
J sh °ulder, for instance, the polisher 
would be of steel. When using dia- 
K tine an iron polish. 

4r-^ th a kmn - 

With fine rouge, a bronze or bell- 



_ using 

, , l , drawn out and 

«, with a hammer, answers very 

With fin_ 

deVT p< i lisltlC1 ' is preferable for shoul- 
s - and for flat surfaces, discs or large 



zmc or tin polishers, although glass is 
preferable to either of these. After 
each operation with oilstone dust, coarse 
rouge, etc., the polisher, cork, etc., must 
be changed, and the object should be 
cleaned well, preferably by soaping, 
perfect cleanliness being essential to 
success. Fine rouge or diamantine 
should be made into a thick paste with 
oil; a little is then taken on the polisher 
or glass and worked until quite dry. As 
the object is thus not smeared over, a 
black polish is more readily obtained, 
and the process gets on better if the 
surface be cleaned from time to time. 

For Fine Steel. — Take equal parts 
(by weight) of ferrous sulphate — green 
vitriol — and sodium chloride — cooking 
salt— mix both well together by grind- 
ing in a mortar and subject the mix- 
ture to red heat in a mortar or a dish. 
Strong fumes will develop, and the mass 
begin to flow. When no more fumes 
arise, the vessel is removed from the 
fire and allowed to cool. A brown 
substance is obtained with shimmering 
scales, resembling mica. The mass is 
now treated with water, partly in order 
to remove the soluble salt, partly m 
order to wash out the lighter portions 
of the non-crystallized oxide, which yield 
an excellent polishing powder. Th 
fire must be neither too strong nor too 
long continued, otherwise the powder 
turns black and very hard, losing its 
good qualities. The more distinct the 
violet-brown color, the better is the 

P °For polishing and cleaning fenders, 
fireirons, horses' bits and similar art 
cles- Fi ty-six pounds Bridgewater stone 
gfpounds^our emery ; 20 pounds jrett 
stone; 8 pounds whiting. Grind an 

mi To^!ake iron take a bright polish lik 

l^^Zltrtin^ solution. 

Stove Polish-The Rowing mak 
aa excellent graphite pohsh. ^ 

I. — Ceresme 10 parts 



598 



POLISHES 

the graphite 



II 



the turpentine. 

.-Ceresme ^3 parts 

Carnaubawax...- g P«g 

S3KffiS^::-.:S5JSS 

Mix as above. 

TTT —Make a mixture of water glass 
^"tk^f about the consj^ 
of thin syrup, and another of finely levi 
gated plumbago and ° f 
eum (or other cheap substitute lor gum 
amble) of a similar consistency. After 
JSSni'rid of dust, etc., go over the stove 
with : mixture No. I and let J t dry on, 
which it will do in about 24 hours. JNow 
go over the stove with the second mix- 
toe, a portion of the surface at a time 
and as this dries, with an old b acking 
brush give it a polish. If carefully done 
the stove will have a polish resembling 
closely that of new Russian iron. A va- 
riant of this formula is as follows: Mix 
the graphite with the water glass to a 
smooth paste; add, for each pound of 
paste, 1 ounce of glycerine and a few 
grains of aniline black. Apply to the 
stove with a stiff brush. 



POLISHES FOR WOOD: 

See also Polishes for Furniture, Floors 
and Pianos. 

In the usual method of French pol- 
ishing, the pad must be applied along 
curved lines, and with very slight pres- 
sure, if the result is to be uniform. To 
do this requires much practice and the 
work is necessarily slow. Another dis- 
advantage is that the oil is apt to sweat 
out afterwards, necessitating further 
treatment. According to a German 
patent all difficulty can be avoided by 
placing between the rubber and its cov- 
ering a powder composed of clay or 
loam.or better, the powder obtained by 
grinding fragments of terra cotta or of 
yellow bricks. The powder is mois- 
tened with oil for use. The rubber will 
then give a fine polish, without any 
special delicacy of manipula lion and 
with mere backward and forward rub- 
bing in straight lines, and the oil will not 
sweat out subsequently. Another ad- 
vantage is that no priming is wanted, 
as the powder fills up the pores. The 

E nC V f lhe poW( ^ r also makes the 
polish adhere more firmly to the wood. 

caSilU °° d Po , lis V— The wood is first 
carefully smoothed, then painted with 



the following rather thickly li quid ^ 
Wnz a brush, viz.: Mix 1§ part 
WgV of finely washed chalk <Vhi&J?f 
4 part of dryer, and 1 part of boiled hY 
seed oil with benzine and tint { Um \Z 
with a little lampblack, burnt sienna) 
After the applied mixture has become 
dry, rub it down, polish with glass p ow 
der, and once more coat with the sam e 
mixture. After this _ filling and a ft er 
rubbing off with stickwood chips or 
fine sea grass, one or two coats of shellac 
are put on (white shellac with wood 
alcohol for oak, brown shellac for cherry 
and walnut). This coating is cut do^a 
with sandpaper and given a coat of var- 
nish, either polishing varnish, which is 
polished off with the ball of the hand or 
a soft brush, or with interior varnish, 
which is rubbed down with oil and 
pumice stone. This polish is glass hard, 
transparent, of finer luster, and resistive. 
Hard Wood Polish. — In finishing hard 
wood with a wax polish the wood is first 
coated with a "filler," which is omitted 
in the case of soft wood. The filler is 
made from some hard substance, very 
finely ground; sand is used by some man- 
ufactures. 

The polish is the same as for soft 
wood. The simplest method of apply- 
ing wax is by a heated iron, scraping off 
the surplus, and then rubbing with a 
cloth. It is evident that this method is 
especially laborious; and for that reason 
solution of the wax is desirable. It may 
be dissolved rather freely in turpentine 
spirit, and is said to be soluble also in 
kerosene oil. . . 

The following recipes give varmsli-liKe 

polishes: 

I.— Dissolve 15 parts of shellac and U 
parts of sandarac in ISO parts of spl^ 
of wine. Of this liquid put some oi 
ball of cloth waste and cover with 
linen moistened with raw linseed ■ 
The wood to be polished is rubbed tw 
this by the well-known circular nK>u 
When the wood has absorbed sutnu 
polish, a little spirit of wine is ad ? e ue rf. 



the polish, and the rubbing is oi it ^ 
The polished articles are said to _su ^ 
no damage by water, nor show sp 

cracks - r,AaXtfi> 
II.— Orange shellac, 3 parts; f "" ho l. 
rt; dissolved in 30 parts otj ^ ^ 



1 part 

For mahogany add a 



little 



blood 

III. — Fifteen parts 



of oil .* «gs 



tine, dyed with anchusine, ° r * ar e 
and 4 parts of scraped y ell0 J; he »tiD<f 
stirred into a uniform mass 0} 
on the water bath. 





POLISHES 



599 



Sft^isapSied hair The 

I £UDfl i „1 borates and eaves behind 
etr oleUin ew .which is subse- 

a **, rtbbed out lightly with a dry 

cVhr f' w .. 100 parts 

V— Stearine £ t 

V - yellow wax.. f part 

Caustic potash ... parts 

YpIIow laundry 

i euu " 10 parts 

Water a sufficient quantity. 

Heat together until a homogeneous 

mixture is formed. 

VT -Yellow wax. ...... 25 parts 

' yellow laundry 

«»P as Kris 

Glue it P ar ^ 

Soda ash 25 parts 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Di sso ]ve the soda in 400 parts of water, 
ad d be wax, and boil down to 250 parts, 
then add the soap. Dissolve the glue in 
100 parts of hot water, and mix the 
whole with the saponified wax. 

VII —This is waterproof. Put into a 
stoppered bottle 1 pint alcohol; 2 ounces 
gum benzoin; i ounce gum sandarac, 
and \ ounce gum anime. Put the bottle 
in a sand bath or in hot water tilt the 
solids are dissolved, then strain the solu- 
tion, and add \ gill best clear poppy oil. 
Shake well and the polish is ready for 
use. 

VIII.— A. white polish for wood is 
made as follows: 

White lac 1J pounds 

Powdered borax 1 ounce 

Alcohol 3 pints 

The lae should be thoroughly dried, 
especially if it has been kept under 
water, and, in any case, after being 
crushed, it should be left in a warm place 
for a few hours, in order to remove every 
trace of moisture. The crushed lac and 
Wax are then added to the spirit, and 
the mixture is stirred frequently until 
solution is effected, after which the polish 



solution is effected, after which the polish 
should be strained through muslin. 

IX. — To restore the gloss of polished 
wood which has sweated, prepare a 
mixture of 100 parts of linseed oil, 750 
P"ts of ether, 1,000 parts of rectified oil 
ot turpentine, and 1,000 parts of petro- 
leum benzine, perfumed, if desired, with 
* strongly odorous essential oil, and 
wiored, if required, with cuicuma, or- 
iean, or alkanna. The objects to be 
^eated are rubbed thoroughly with this 
fixture, using a woolen rag. 



MISCELLANEOUS POLISHING 

AGENTS: 

Polishing Agent which may also he 
used for Gilding and Silvering. — The 

following mediums hitherto known as 
possessing the aforenamed properties, 
lose these qualities upon having been kept 
for some time, as the metal salt is partly 
reduced. Furthermore, it has not been 
possible to admix reducing substances 
such as zinc to these former polishing 
agents, since moisture causes the metal 
to precipitate. The present invention 
obviates these evils. The silver or gold 
salt is mixed with chalk, for instance, in 
a dry form. To this mixture, fine dry 
powders of one or more salts (e. g., am- 
monia compounds) in whose solutions 
the metal salt can enter are added; if re- 
quired, a reducing body, such as zinc, 
may be added at the same time. Tbe 
composition is pressed firmly together 
and forms briquettes, in which condition 
the mass keeps well. For use, all that 
is necessary is to scrape off a little of the 
substance and to prepare it with water. 

Silver Polishing Balls.— This polishing 
agent is a powder made into balls bj 
means of a. binding medium and enjoys 
much popularity ia Germany. It * 
prepared by adding 5 parts of levigate* 
chalk to 2 parts of yellow tnpoli, mmn< 
the two powders well and making into 
stiff paste with very weak gum wate 
— \ part gum arabic to 12 parts of wate 
This dough is finally shaped b y> han< 
into balls of the size of a P'S^VJff 
The balls are put aside to dry on boarc 
in a moderately warm room, and whe 
completely hard are wrapped in tin-toi 
paper. 

POLISHING CLOTH : 

as mfQBona eartn l • ^ may , 
in with the liquid, a <- to 

g£ itched and al owed t >Jg- 

A dust-cloth is made in a similar d " 
omitting the abrasive ^ and when^ 
rubbed on a wooden curiaee 
longer streaks. 



To Polish delicate J) 
objects VOTSSS, U pa. 

TXZ ^tr P % of lavender od. 



600 



POLISHES 



Polish for Gilt Frames.— Mix and beat 
& e whites of 3 eggs with one-third by 
weight, of javelle water, and apply to the 
gilt work. * 

Steel Dust as a Polishing Agent.— bteel 
du st is well adapted for polishing pre- 
cious stones and can replace emery with 



wller" oTa olf s^eTbriught to a Hgu 
temperature. The metal becomes fria- 
bto Kd can be readily, reduced to pow- 
der in a mortar. This powder is dis- 
tinguished from emery by its mordanting 
properties and its lower price. Besides 
iV produces a finer, and consequently, a 
more durable polish. 

Polishing Bricks.— Stir into a thick 
pulp with water 10 parts of finely pow- 
dered and washed chalk, 1 part of fcng- 
]ish red, and 2 parts of powdered gyp- 
sum; give it a square shape and dry. 

Polishing Cream. — 

Denaturized alcohol 400 parts 
Spirit of sal ammo- 
niac 75 parts 

Water 150 parts 

Petroleum ether .... 80 parts 
Infusorial earth ..... 100 parts 
Red bole or white 

bole 50 parts 

Calcium carbonate. . 100 parts 
Add as much of the powders as de- 
sired. Mirbane oil may be used for scent- 
ing. 

Polishing Paste. — 

Infusorial earth 

(Kieselguhr) .... 8 ounces 

Paraffine 2 ounces 

Lubricating oil ... . 6 fluidounces 

Oleic acid 1 fluidouncc 

Oil mirbane 30 minims 

; Melt the paraffine with the lubricating 
oil, and mix with the infusorial earth, 
then add the oleic acid and oil of mir- 
bane. 

To Polish Paintings on Wood. Ac- 
cording to the statements of able cabinet 
makers who frequently had occasion to 
coyer decorations on wood, especially 
aquarelle painting, with a polish, a good 
coating of fine white varnish is the first 
aecessity, dammar varnish being em- 
ployed for this purpose. This coat is 
primarily necessary as a protective layer 
so as to preserve the painted work from 
destructive attacks (Turing the rubbing 

.« l P Tod . uct,on °f a smooth surface 
and the subsequent polishing. At all 
events the purest white polishing varnish 
must be used for the polish so & to pre- 
vent a perceptible subsequent darkening 



obtained by spraying 
n 



of the white painting colors. NaturalU 
the success here is also dependent xipl 
the skill of the polisher. To polish pavnt . 

to 



the 

ing 
c 
w 



executed on wood it is necessary „ 
boose a white, dense, fine grained wood 
,?hich must present t a _ well-smoothed 
surface before the painting. After the 
painting the surface is faintly coated with 
a fine, quickly drying, limpid varnish 
When the coating has dried well, it [ s 
carefully rubbed down with finely pulver- 
ized pumice stone, with tallow or white 
lard, and now this surface is polished in 
the usual manner with a good solution 
prepared from the best white shellac. . 

Polishing Mediums. — For iron and 
steel, stannic oxide or Vienna lime or 
iron oxide and sometimes steel powder 
is employed. In using the burnisher, 
first oil is taken, then soap water, and 
next Vienna lime. 

For copper, brass, German silver, and 
tombac, stearine oil and Vienna lime 
are used. Articles^ of brass can be pol- 
ished, after the pickling, in the lathe 
with employment of a polish consisting 
of shellac, dissolved in alcohol, 1,000 
parts; powdered turmeric, 1,000 parts; 
tartar, 2,000 parts; ox gall, 50 parts; 
water, 3,000 parts. 

Gold is polished with ferric oxide 
(red stuff), which, moistened with alco- 
hol, is applied to leather. 

For polishing silver, the burnisher or 
bloodstone is employed, using soap 
water, thin beer, or a decoction of soap 
wort. Silver-plated articles are also 
polished with Vienna lime. 

Xo produce a dull luster on gold and 
silver ware, glass brushes, i. e., scratch 
brushes of finely spun glass threads, are 
made use of. . , 

Pewter articles arc polished W«J 
Vienna lime or whiting; the former on a 
linen rag, the latter on leather. . 

If embossed articles are to be pol- 
ished, use the burnisher, and for polisn. 
soap water, soap-wort decoction, ox g 
with water. .. , ^ 

^ Antimony-lead alloys are P olisn or 
with burnt magnesia on soft leather 
with fine jewelers' red. ,- me 

Zinc is brightened with Vienna iw 
or powdered charcoal. , ore J 

Vienna lime gives a light -c<M 
polish on brass, while ferric oxiue 
parts a dark luster. _ ; s an 

Diatomaccous or infusorial eart , 
excellent abrasive powder to use I" ,^ S; 
ishing and cleaning enamelware, 
bathtubs, glass, metals, woodwork', fee 
marble, etc. This material can w*^ 
used for preparing and polis mn .» 
surfaces for microscopical examn" 




POLISHES — PORCELAIN 



601 



nr Pari s Red.— This appears in 
Bougeqr ^ 1 shades, varying from 
dflS^^tTSocoUite brown The 
brick jed J 0 w wige indl cative of 
h o ; ever, ^ b fc be 

its P" rl ? ,f a criterion by winch to de- 
& CCC P- S the hardness of the powder. 
tc rBune tne vderi the greater is 

of harness; the red or red- 
its degree or ^ wherefore the 

disl1 15 is used for polishing steel and the 
^€^0^ Paris red consists 



£Xn Wed *o a red heat they 
that wtien from the acld 

SeP rt Wion In its manufacture it is 
Sfito ake commercial green vitriol, 
usual m d b t them to a 

SCSSftSto off the water of 
Station. When this is nearly 
accomplished they will settle down ma 
white powder, which is now placed m 
a crucible and raised to a glowing red 
heat till no more vapor arises, when the 
residue will be found a soft smooth red 
powder. As the temperature is raised 
in the crucible, the darker will become 
the color of the powder and the harder 
the abrasive. 

Should an especially pure rouge be 
desired, it may be made so by boiling 
the powder we have just made in a weak 
solution of soda and afterwards washing 
it out repeatedly and thoroughly with 
clean water. If treated in this way, all 
the impurities that may ehance to stick to 
the iron oxide will be separated from it. 

Should a rouge be needed to put a 
specially brilliant polish upon any object 
its manufacture ought to be conducted 
according to the following formula: 
Dissolve commercial green vitriol in 
water; dissolve also a like weight of sor- 
rel salt in water; filter both solutions; 
mix them well, and warm to 140° F,; a 
yellow precipitate, which on account of 
15 W a ei S nt ' wil1 se ttle immediately; decant 
* i u ' dry out the residue, and after- 
wards heat it as before in an iron dish in a 
moderately hot furnace till it glows red. 

? ,i , s process an exceptionally 
wh'°l 'f P " red P owd er is obtained, 
in tw P ro P er care has been exercised 
tinTi n Y anous 3te Ps> will need no elutria- 
orice \V C u n be used for Pushing at 
wis/ powders prepared in this 

J ^nf. optical glasses and lenses of fin- 
1 ^ allt y are polished. 

P0 S; I P S ? ES ? 0R THE LAUNDRY: 
ee Sundry Preparations. 



POMEGRANATE ESSENCE: 

See Essences and Extracts. 

PORCELAIN: 

See also Ceramics. 

Mending Porcelain by Riveting (see 
Adhesives for methods of mending Porcelain 
by means of cements). — Porcelain and glass 
can be readily pierced with steel tools. 
Best suited are hardened drills of ordinary 
shape, moistened with oil of turpentine, if 
the glazed or vitreous body is to be pierced. 
In the case of majolica and glass without 
enamel the purpose is best reached if the 
drilling is done under water. Thus, the 
vessel should previously be filled with 
water, and placed in a receptacle containing 
water, so that the drill is used under 
water, and, after piercing the clay body, 
reaches the water again. In the case of 
objects glazed on the inside, instead of 
filling them with water, the spot where 
the drill must come through may be 
underlaid with cork. The pressure 
with which the drill is worked is deter- 
mined by the hardness of the material, 
but when the tool is about to reach the 
other side it should gradually decrease 
and finally cease almost altogether, so as 
to avoid chipping. In order to enlarge, 
small bore holes already existing, three- 
cornered or four-square broaches, ground 
and polished, are best adapted. These 
are likewise employed under water or, 
if the material is too hard (glass or enam- 
el), moistened with oil of turpentine. 
The simultaneous use of oil of turpen- 
tine and water is most advisable m all 
eases even where the nature of the article 
to be pierced does not admit the use of 
oil alone, as in the. case of i raajobca and 
non-glazed porcelain, which absorb the 
oil without the use of water. 

Porcelain Decoration.— A J^j^^ay 
low color, known as "gold luster may 
U produced on pored** ^ by^ he use 
of pamt prepared as foUows^l ^ jq 

a sand bath 30 P arl f t n A while con- 
torts of uranic nitrate, and, wnne 

K the — b» bee"- enWj 



equal parts of oxide or int is to 

^»& T E « L P0T ' 

See Ceramics. 



PRESERVATIVES PRESERVING 



PORCELAIN STAINS, TO RE- 

fSr^ strong solution of oxalic add 
sJub^/w'th *a brush or small mop 
✓oxalic acid is poisonous). 

TT When porcelain articles have a 

1 Tr,L ,„! them you can remove 
bf T ?eWng coAcLtrated hydro- 
Tnric acid triSfe on the stain until it is 
*Ted a (a d medicine dropper cjobe^ed 
if stain is not a large « me). ^1™^. 
oughlT afterwards with water to remove 
all trace of acid. 
POTATO STARCH; 

See Starch. 

POTTERY: 

See Ceramics. 

POULTRY APPLICATIONS: 
See Insecticides. 

POULTRY FOODS AND POULTRY 
DISEASES AND THEIR REME- 
DIES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

POULTRY WINE: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

•POWDER FOR COCKROACHES: 

Chamomile 1 ounce 

Borax 6 ounces 

Insect powder 1 ounce 

Plaster Paris % ounce 

Sulphur V-fz ounces 

These ingredients should be in powder 
form and thoroughly mixed. This powder 
should be sprinkled around where cock- 
roaches collect or run. 

POWDERS FOR STAMPING: 

See Stamping. 

POWDERS FOR THE TOILET: 

See Cosmetics. 

Preservatives 

(See also Foods.) 
Preservative Fluid for Museums. — 
Formaldehyde solu- 

* ion \ 6 parts 

Wycerme. 12 parts 

sS coho1 --- 3 parts 

Watep 100 parts 

The addition of glycerine becomes 
necessary only if it i a desired to keep the 
E S i m u S ° ft ? tate " Bering through 
SI i f a . rC ° al r ^ nders the HqTlia per- 

Tv Fo . T dense ° b i««to. such 

oATe fluid *° T ,a S ita1 * the P e "«tration 
Ue flmd " In the case of very thick 



pieces, it is best to take SO to 100 p art . 
of formaldehyde solution f 0r a ^ 
quantities. 

Preservative for Stone, etc. — A new 
composition, or paint, for prot ect i ng 
stone, wood, cement, etc., from the 
effects of damp or other > deleterious fo 
fluences consists of quicklime, chalk 
mineral colors, turpentine, boiled oil' 
galipot, rosin, and benzine. The lim e ' 
chalk, colors, and turpentine are fi rs { 
fixed and then made into a paste with the 
boiled oil. The paste is finely ground 
and mixed with the rosins - 
dissolved in the benzine. 



previously 



Preservative for Stuffed Animals. 

For the exterior preservation use 

Arsenic 0.7 parts 

Alum 15.0 parts 

Water 100.0 parts 

For sprinkling the inside skin as well 
as filling bones, the following is em- 
ployed: 

Camphor 2 parts 

Insect powder 2 parts 

Black pepper 1 part 

Flowers of sulphur. . . 4 parts 

Alum 3 parts 

Calcined soda 3 parts 

Tobacco powder 3 parts 

Preservatives for Zoological and Ana- 
tomical Specimens. — The preparations 
are first placed in a solution or mixture of 

Sodium fluoride 5 parts 

Formaldehyde (40 per 

cent) 2 parts 

Water 100 parts 

After leaving this fixing liquid they 
are put in the following preservative 
solution: 

Glvcerine (28 °B6.)... 5 parts 

Water 10 parts 

Magnesium chloride.. 1 P ar ; 
Sodium fluoride 0.2 parts 

In this liquid zoological pr e P ar *3 
especially reptiles, retain their D 
coloring. Most anatomical P rC P a ** 
likewise remain unchanged therei 

PRESERVATIVES FOR WOOD: 

See Wood. 



Preserving 



Canning.— There should be n °J^\ 
ble in having canned fruit keep, . g ob „ 
perfect or "chemical cleanliness ^0 
served in regard to jars, lids, etc^ 
the fruit or vegetables are in g° . rr0 e»| 
not overripe or beginning T<_ u it ^ 
where bruised or crushed. 



PRESERVING 



603 



rt ,it of iars better than it goes 
nev^ oomeoa to M J a little fruit at a 
I It is K"^ ■ ° ripe than to wait for a 
&e* henl Vt 8 C ripen, when the first 
la^riloe and fermenting and 



^ ^ Xtalot. Use only 



fore begin- 
in each jar, 



like '/ n st favored fruit 
tJje finest na> d bef , 

Have every tm ^ water j n 
n > ng ^SbeS and tops, and invert the 
fit 0Q n the table. If any water oozes 
ar on tM j» d rubber until 

U ^ an r °[fJ r . ti iht. Wash ars and 
sure the par ^ir tit id ^ and b . 

cooked 



to a 



' 

thick paper, and 



are for all 
are cooked 
Fruit keeps 
in the jars, 



r n , When the fruit is 
5 a iar from the boiling water, 
«ff 0 n L a i mp cloth laid m a soup 
S iM dh> a rubber in boiling water, and 
Sftto? firmly- Fill the jar to ovzr- 

SowUW tiie brim ' screw T n e ft 

and turn it upside down on a table If 
any S P oo.es out empty the jar back 
K the kettle and fit on a tighter rub- 
ber Let it stand upside down till cold, 
wipe clean, wrap m 
keep in a cool, dry place. 

These general directions 
fruits and vegetables that 
before putting in the jars, 
its shape better if cooked 
which should be prepared as above, the 
fruit carefully looked over and filled into 
the jars. If a juicy fruit, like black- 
berries or raspberries, put the sugar m 
with it in alternate layers. For cherries 
the amount of sugar depends on the 
acidity of the fruit and is best made into 
a syrup with a little water and poured 
down through them. Peaches and pears 
after paring, are packed into the jars and 
a syrup of about a quarter of a pound 
of sugar to a pound of fruit poured over 
them. Most fruits need to be cooked 
from 10 to 15 minutes after the water 
around them begins to boil. 

Red raspberries ought not to be boiled. 
Put them into jars as gently as possible; 
™ey are the tenderest of all fruits and 

Drop 



Will bear the slightest handling 
them in loosely, fold a saucer mm <* 
dean cloth, and lay over the top, set on a 
perforated board in a boiler, pour water 
to two-thirds, cover and set over a slow 
nre. As the fruit settles add more until 
n 1' j hen il is c °oked soft lift the jar 
out and fill to the top with boiling syrup 



seal PartS ° f SUgar and water ' and 

ielf?° n0t Can a11 the ImJt > for i ains and 
J 'si are . a welcome change and also 

rani - , e P- Raspberries and cur- 
C,' miX « d make d ehcious jam. Use 
juice of a third as many currants and 
• u * a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 



The flavor of all kinds of fruit is injured 
by cooking it long with the sugar, so 
heat the latter in the oven and add when 
the fruit is nearly done. 

Jelly is best made on a clear day, for 
small fruits absorb moisture, and if 
picked after a rain require longer boiling, 
and every minute of unnecessary boiling 
gives jelly a less delicate color and flavor. 
When jelly is syrupy, it has been boiled . 
too long; if it drops from the spoon with 
a spring, or wrinkles as you push it with 
the spoon in a saucer while cooling, it is 
done enough. Try it after 5 minutes' 
boil. Cook the fruit only until the skin 
is broken and pulp softened. Strain 
without squeezing for jelly, and use the 
last juice you squeeze out for jam. 
Measure the juice and boil uncovered, 
skimming off. For sweet fruits ^ of a 
pound of sugar is enough to a pint of 
juice. Heat the sugar in the oven, add 
to the boiling juice; stir till dissolved. 
When it boils up, draw to the back of the 
stove. Scald the jelly glasses, fill and 
let stand in a clean, cool place till next 
day; then cover. Blackberries make 
jelly of a delicious flavor and jelly easily 
when a little underripe. Currants should 
be barely ripe; the ends of the bunches 
may be rather green. . , 

A highly prized way of canning cher- 
ries: Stone and let them stand overnight 
In the morning pour off the juice, add 
sugar to taste, and some water if there is 
not much juice, and boil and skim till it is 
a rich syrup. If the cherries are sweet a 
pint o ! 5S and * of a pint of sugar will 
Ee right. Heat tie iars, put m the un- 
cookfd cherries till they are nearly full; 
Sen pour over them the boiling syrup 
and fasten on the covers Set the jars in 

that of fresh and uncooked cherries. 
Canning 

to preserve th ^^ e fJ C e int o the bottles 
sterilization, puV the ju j<*fg fa very 

in ™Y lC ) V nlace tfe' &, u W 
^Iv full, Pj a £ e fi g^ witn cold water, 

peretf, m * ^.^Ja wooden perfor 
so arranging them ou » Ijk 
ated "faTse bottom, or other ^ - ^ 
trivance, as to prevent their * ntiag 
contact With the metat.w^P fracture . 



contacx wiw ~ j r^netiihle fracture 
unequal heating ^and possibly 
Now heat the water, gr j . ^ 



604 



PRESERVING 



boiling 
. The 



have been kept 

W H^/KiUd not be'fa-tcned in any way, 
corks snouia complete, 

for lf the, ste n * atl ™ uent explosion 
fermentation ana w^- 1 , t £ cor k 



effect. 



t^Ip agitation without heat and a nner 
thus results, but its keeping qual- 
ity would be uncertain. 

tr —Fruit juices may be preserved by 
gentle heating and after protection from 
the air in sterilized containers lhe 
heat required is much below the boiling 
point. Professor Mul cr finds that a 
temperature of from 140° to 158 
maintained for 15 minutes, is sufficient 
to render the fermenting agents present 
inactive. The. bottles must also be 
heated to destroy any adherent germs. 
The juices may be placed m them as ex- 
pressed and the container then placed m 
a water bath. As soon as the heating is 
finished the bottles must be securely 
closed. The heating process will, in 
consequence of coagulating certain sub- 
stances, produce turbidity, and if clear 
liquid is required, filtration is, of course, 
necessary. In this case it is better to 
heat the juice in bulk in a kettle, filter 
through felt, fill the bottles, and then 
heat again in the containers as in the 
first instance. It is said that grape 
juice prepared in this manner has been 
found unaltered after keeping for many 
years. Various antiseptics have been 
proposed as preservatives for fruit juices 
and other articles of food, but all such 
agents are objectionable both on ac- 
count of their direct action on the system 
and their effect in rendering food less 
digestible. While small quantities of 
such drugs occasionally taken may exert 
no appreciable effect, continuous use is 
liable to be more or less harmful. 

CRUSHED FRUIT PRESERVING: 
b^nlf^ dapples.— Secure a good 
S2?n a c ^ nned Boated pineapple and 
SEfni ff ab ° Ut ° ne - halE °* the H W b y 
E f P lnc JJPple 1 pound of granu- 

Just hi g POmt « birring constantly* 
Juat before removing From the fire, add 




to each gallon of pulp 1 ounce saturate 
alcoholic solution salicylic acid T> 
into air-tight jars until wanted for ns e 

Crashed Peach.— -Take a good brarri 
of canned yellow peaches, drain n e 
liquor, and rub through a No, 8 si ev 
Add sugar, bring to the boiling 
and when ready to remove from tire add 
to each gallon 1 ounce saturated alcoholS 
solution of salicylic acid. Put into j&S 
and seal hermetically. 

Crushed Apricots. — Prepared iu similar 
manner to crushed peach, using canned 
apricots. 

Crushed Orange. — Secure oranges with 
a thin peel and containing plenty 0 f 
juice. Remove the outer or yellow peel 
first, taking care not to include any of 
bitter peel. The outer peel may be 
used in making orange phosphate or 
tincture sweet orange peel. After re- 
moving the outer peel, remove the inner, 
bitter peel, quarter andremove the seeds. 
Extract part of the juice and grind the 
pulp through an ordinary meat grinder. 
Add sugar, place on the fire, and bring to 
the boiling point, When ready to re- 
move, add to each gallon 1 ounce satu- 
rated alcoholic solution of salicylic acid 
and 1 ounce glycerine. Put into jars 
and seal. 

Crushed Cherries. — If obtainable, the 
large, dark California cherry should be 
used. Stone the cherries, and grind to a 
pulp. Add sugar, and place on the fire, 
stirring constantly. Before removing, 
add to each gallon 1 ounce of the satu- 
rated sol ution of salicylic acid. Put into 
jars and seal. 

Dry Sugar Preserving.— The fruits 
are embedded in a thick layer ol arj, 
powdered sugar to which they give y 
the greater part of the water oontjjgj 

' into 



d 




in them. At the same time, a f 
of sugar passes through the skins 
the interior of the fruits. Afterjar*, 
the fruits are washed once, wipe ' ' 
completely dried. . 

Fruit Preserving.— Express the i"*- 
and filter at once, through two . ^ 
nesses of best white Swedish pap > \ ^ 
a container that has been stern rUn 
mediately before letting the H h ^ teT 
into it, by boiling water, iJ . , ict jye 
plan is to take out of water t0 
ebullition at the moment you ^ed, 
use it. Have ready some ^"^^ keP* 
8-ounce vials, which should aiSU p 0l jr t" e 
in boiling water until needed- j fl 
juice into these, leaving !" o0 v i a l to 
upper part of the body of the 



PRESERVING 



605 



f„l nf the best olive oil. 
rff-STB^^ftwai trickle 
Pour the & , 0 top 

Jo^ tte.^ eC ^ n close the neck with a 
of W^SepSc cotton thrust into it m 
a d of a nt "*?L t it does not touch the 
^ 7le° ve room for the cork to be 
oil ' Jitliout touching it. Cork and 
' il, and put la a cool, 



PUt 5 ^ ^dtip'-in'dlii upright 



cap 



dark P^* ce ' J faithfully with Sue atten- 
I f carrSe ,ln ncs this process will keep 
tion to ^"rfecUy natural condition 
tbe juice n a P e " ^ tw0 essentials 
for a very long time filtrat ion, and 

arC nlete asepticization of the con- 
th e compile ^ pt . n th 

tamer t M dewnds upon the rapid and 
Fren ^ntSfoT"he juice, and the addi- 
K oHrom 3 S to 10 per cent of alcohol. 



is 



Rasoberry Juice— A dark juice 
obSafd bVaJding to the crushed rasp- 
beSes before the fermentation, slight 
nuantities of sugar in layers. The 
Calcohol forming during the fermen- 
Stion is said to cause a better extraction 
of the raspberry red. Furthermore, 
tLe boiling should not be conducted on 
a naked fire, but by means of super- 
heated steam, so as to avoid formation ot 
caramel. Finally, the sugar used should 
be perfectly free from ultramarine and 
lime, since both impurities detract from 
the red color of the raspberries. 

Spice for Fruit Compote. — This is 
greatly in demand in neighborhoods 
•where many plums and pears are pre- 
served. 

Parts 

Lemon peel 15 

Cinnamon, ordi- 
nary 15 

Star aniseed .... 10 

Coriander 3 

Carob pods 5 

Ginger root, 

peeled 2 

Hmento. . , 

licorice or 

Cloves, -without 

stems 

Spanish peppers . 

Oil of lemon 

Oil of cinnamon . 
Oil of cloves 



Parts 



or 

or 
or 
or 
or 

or 
or 



or 
or 
or 
or 



50 
15 
100 



200 
100 
100 

30 
2 
4 



or 



2 



j ^\ tlle solid constituents are pow- 
m <>derately fine and thoroughly 



. Lile OUs dropped in last, and 
Iut >bed into the powder 

Sjwlienies^ Carefully remove the 
I and calyxes, place the strawber- 



about in a tub of water for a few mo- 
ments, to remove any dirt clinging to 
them. Drain and partially dry spon- 
taneously, then remove from the sieve 
and put into a porcelain-lined kettle 
provided with a tight cover. To every 
pound of berries take a half pound of 
sugar and 2 ounces of water and put the 
same in a kettle over the fire. Let re- 
main until the sugar has dissolved or 
become liquid, and then pour the same, 
while still not, over the berries, cover the 
kettle tightly and let it stand overnight. 
The next morning put the kettle over the 
fire, removing the cover when the berries 
begin to boil, and let boil gently for 6 
to 8 minutes (according to the mass), 
removing all scum as it arises. Remove 
from the fire, and with a perforated 
spoon or dipper take the fruit from the 
syrup, and fill into any suitable vessel. 
Replace the syrup on the fire and boil for 
about the same length of time as before, 
then pour, all hot, over the berries. The 
next day empty out the contents of the 
vessel on a sieve, and let the berries 
drain off; remove the syrup that drains 
off, add water, put on the fire and boil 
until you obtain a syrup which flows but 
slowly from the stirring spoon. At this 
point add the berries, and let boil gently 
for a few moments. Have your pre- 
serve jars as hot as possible, -by putting 
them into a pot of cold water and bring- 
ing the latter to a boil, and into .them fill 
th! berries, hot from the kettle. Cool 
down cover with buttered paper, and 
^mediately close the jar. hermeUc^j- 
If corks are used, they should be pro 
tected below with Pf rc .^,\ffi 
and afterwards covered with wet bladder 

S ^7d U jfpdd^y ?L a riclfss and 
expended is repaid ny xn preserye> 

s e s^& e s fl r r of »/u-. of 

the fresh berry H> perfection. 

Hydrogen Peroxide - J^STbSS 

drachms of the > comm ^ of 

hydrogen may be added Hyd rogen 
the article to be preserveu , {Qr 
peroxide, also afford, an eajy 
Wena in water J con 

ia thesf organisms decompose jt, 
bacteria, tnese ■ w b 1S give n oti- 

and consequently ^oxyger d the 
If the water be mua ft e bmki 
disengagement of gas m»y 




606 

* tj^eprve Milk (which should be as 
X o ^ ese "f h ^ There should be added 
fresh as.possible) ^ cauge ft to 

en- 

3 

volume, of a 3 per cent 
oling.it may keep fresh 



PRESERVING — PUTTY 




zymes 
er cent, 



by 



hours at 
vessels, 
for about 



122 c 



Upon cooling, it may 
a month and also to retain its 



killed off sc 



K erms are Kineu uu doon after milking 
tnd the milk sterilized. 

Powdered Cork as a Preservative.— 
Tests have shown that Peered cork is 
in* efficacious for packing and me- 
Jerving fruits and vegetables. A bed of 
corkl p aced at the Worn of the case 
and the fruits or vegetables and the cork 
are then disposed in alternate layers, 
with a final one of cork at the top. Care 
should be taken to fill up the interstices, 
in order to prevent friction. Fruit may 
thus be kept fresh a year, provided any 
unsound parts have been removed pre- 
liminarily. When unpacking for sale, 
it suffices to plunge the fruit into water. 
Generally speaking, 50 pounds of cork go 
with 1,000 or 1,200 pounds of fruit. The 
cork serves as a protection against cold, 
heat, and humidity. Various fruits, 
such as grapes, mandarines, tomatoes, 
and early vegetables, are successfully 
packed in this way. 

Petrifying Wooden Objects.— 
Take equal parts of Rock Salt or Table 
Salt, Hock Alum (Commercial Lump 
Alum), White Vinegar, Chalk and (pow- 
dered) Pebbles. (You can substitute for 
the latter any kind of coarse quartz 
sand). Mix all together— ebullition will 
ensue. After it has ceased, throw some 
wooden objects into the solution and let 
them soak for five days, at the end of 
which time they will be transformed into 
petrifaction. 

Note: This formula really will not 
petrify the wood, but will cover it with a 
very nice coat of crystals. As the solu- 
tion evaporates, it leaves the crystals on 
the wood which appear as the wood 
Qnea Colored effects may be obtained 

tLS S S ? me Colored salts ' suc: h as po- 
W t& Chromate or copper sulphate, 
out these are poisonous if tasted. 



P i™L%*i|I°«^ON OF: 



PUFFINESS UNDER EYES; 

1 ounce Glycerine 
20 grains Tannin 
Apply every night before retiring w ; tll 
a bit of cotton, or a very soft brush. 

PUMICE STONE. 

While emery is used for polishing tools 
polishing saud for stones and gl ass ' 
ferric oxide for fine glassware, and liu^ 
and felt for metals, pumice stone is more 
frequently employed for polishing softer 
objects. Natural pumice stone p re . 
sents but little firmness, and the search 
has therefore been made to replace the 
natural product with an artificial one. 
An artificial stone has been produced hy 
means of sandstone and clay, designed to 
be used for a variety of purposes. No. 1 ( 
hard or soft, with coarse grain, is 
designed for leather and waterproof 
garments, and for the industries of felt 
and wool; No. 2, hard and soft, of aver- 
age grain, is designed for work in stucco 
and sculptors' use, and for ruhbing down 
wood before painting; No. 3, soft, with 
fine grain, is used for polishing wood and 
tin articles; No. 4, of average hardness, 
with fine grain, is used for giving to wood 
a surface previous to polishing with oil; 
No. 5, hard, with fine grain, is employed 
for metal work and stones, especially 
lithographic stones. These artificial 
products are utilized in the same manaer 
as the volcanic products. For giving a 
smooth surface to wood, the operation is 
dry; but for finishing, the product is 
diluted with oil. 

PUMICE-STONE SOAP: 
See Soaps. 

PUNCHES: 

See Ice Creams. 

PUNCTURE CEMENT: 

See Cement. 



PURPLE OF 

See Gold. 



CASSIUS: 



Putty 

(See also Lutes, under Adhesive* » n 
Cements.) 

Common putty, as used ty-g^itd 
painters, and glaziers, is whi l y ° y of 

lime 

LLSC a, * 

putty. l^ ele :; ¥xt -DO* 



with linseed oil to the consiste ^ 
dough. Plasterers use a fine ft tin 

that is called putty. Jewelers ^, de r 
oxide for -«^- ™"<" d » utty 
or putz po 
Under Jewelers' Polishes, 



eTfor polishing, called putty P^er, 

puta powder. (See lut Polish 65 ''' 
, under * v 



r 



PUTTY 



607 



e tw+v —I.— Melt 1 part of 
Ad f ^wifh 8 parts of linseed oil and 
S um e -S he necesLry quantity of white 
* ix u Continued kneading to the desired 
bole by co» tmu H drOC hloric acid and 
consistency. / att&ck thia putty, it 
nitric acia au h aQcl does 

soft f S Sfy on the surface. The dry- 
not dry | bar ening is effected by an admix- 
ingm ni ^ par of litharge or red lead. 
tU iT 1 putty which will even resist 
, 8£" sufphuric acid is prepared by 
b0l R caoutchouc at a moderate heat, 
melting c-aouicLi tallow, stirring 

* e i*X g whSSuSn sufficiently slakeS 
^dded until the whole has the 
lime is aciaeu dou<r h. Finally 

roSl^cenfof red°lead is still 
a Kd whiS causes the mass to set im- 
* v and to harden and dry. A 

SlSn 7 of caoutchouc in double its 
S w ° S t of Unseed oil. added by means o 
Et and with the like quantity (weight) 
of pipe clay, gives a plastic mass which 
likewise resists most acids. 

Black Putty. — Mix whiting and an- 
timony sulphide, the latter finely pow- 
dered, with soluble glass. This putty, it 
is claimed, can be polished, after harden- 
ing, by means of a burnishing agate. 

Durable Putty. — According to the 
"Gewerbeschau," mix a handful of burnt 
lime with 4} ounces of linseed oil; allow 
this mixture to boil down to the consist- 
ency of common putty, and dry the ex- 
tensible mass received, in a place not 
accessible to the rays of the sun. When 
the putty, which has become very hard 
through the drying, is to be used, it is 
warmed. Over the flame it will become 
soft and pliable, but after having been 
applied and become cold, it binds the 
various materials very firmly. 

Glaziers' Putty. — I. — For puttying 
panes or looking glasses into picture 
frames a mixture prepared as follows is 
well adapted: Make a solution of gum 
Mastic in benzine, strong enough so that 
a syrup-like fluid results. If the solu- 
tion be too thin, wait until the benzine 



ilU, Willi Ulllil ILiC U*U±1&11«5 

Then grind white lead in 
Taa l ° il vami sh to a stiff paste and 
aaa the gum solution. This putty may 
be used h« c ;,4„„ *i i *_ 



evaporates, 
hnseed-ou 



^ fcuui solution, 

th U f' u Bes ides the above purposes, for 

^to & JS^'fei^ JS^ 



int *t? ■ r' ULl J iI1 g-in oi winaow paue» 

on *i , fram es. The putty is applied 

Zn glass la P °f the frames ami the 

K SS f re firni * ¥ pressed into it. The 
? ass p ates thereb F 

JPPort and stick to th 



n „4,- .;• *" *> "'k i<) tne wood, as the i , , ,, f i.,. n >seiu\ win™ 

fRood b ° th t0 the glaSS and t0 dissolves the linseed oil of the putty. 



, H- — A useful putty for mirrors, etc., 
is prepared by dissolving gummi elasti- 
cum (caoutchouc) in benzol to a syrupy 
solution, and incorporating this 'latter 
with a mixture of white lead and linseed 
oil to make a stiff pulp. The putty 
adheres strongly to both glass and wood, 
and may therefore be applied to the 
framework of the window, mirror, etc., 
to be glazed, the glass being then 
pressed firmly on the cementing layer 
thus formed. 

Hard Putty.— This is used by carriage 

Eainters and jewelers. Boil 4 pounds 
rown umber and 7 pounds linaeed oil 
for 2 hours; stir in 2 ounces beeswax; 
take from the fire and mix in 5^ pounds 
chalk and 11 pounds white lead; the 
mixing must be done very thoroughly. 

Painters' Putty and Rough Stuff. — 
Gradually knead sifted dry chalk (whit- 
ing) or else rye flour, powdered white 
lead, zinc white, or lithopone white with 
good linseed-oil varnish. The best 
putty is produced from varnish with 
plenty of chalk and some zinc white. 
This mixture can be tinted with earth 
colors. These oil putties must be well 
kneaded together and rather compact 
(like glaziers' putty). ' . . 

If flour paste is boiled (this is best 
produced by scalding with hot water, 
pouring in, gradually, the rye flour 
which has been previously dissolved in a 
little cold water and stirring constant^ 
until the proper consistency is attained) 
and dry sifted chalk and a little varnish 
are added, a good rough stuff for wood 
or iron is obtained, which can be rubbed. 
This may also be produced from gla- 
irs' oil putty by gradually kneading into 
it flour pastel/dl little more sifted dry 

chalk. 

To Soften Glaziers' Putty.— 

nuttV which has become hard can 
be ofi-d with the follow ng -xture: 
Mix carefully equal Pf^.^^Cd 

This dough, to which about | part^I 

soft and P^ tlc /^° n U SVlX fresh putty, 
that it can ^ take-off I ket*^ 
by the use of kerosene ^ 



PUTTY PYROTECHNICS 



608 

transformed into rusin, and quickly pen- 
etrates it. 

imperceptible. 

'Waterproof Patties.— I —Grind pow- 
dered white lead or minium (red lead) 
fftJbk linseed-oil varnjsh to a s ff 
taste. This putty is used extensively 
for tightening wrought-iron gas pipes, 
for tightening 6 rivet seams on gas meter, 
hot-water furnaces, cast-iron flange pipes 
for hot-water heating, etc. 1 he putt} 
made with minium dries very slowlj, but 
becomes tight even before it is quite 
hard, and holds very firmly after solidin- 
eation. Sometimes a little ground gyp- 
sum is added to it. 

The two following putties are cheaper 
than the above-mentioned red lead 
putty: II. — One part white lead, 1 part y 
manganese, one part white pipe clay, j 
prepared with linseed-oil varnish. 

HI. — Two parts red lead, 5 parts 
white lead, 4 parts clay, ground in or 
prepared with linseed-oil varnish. 

IV. — -Excellent putty, which has been 
found invaluable where waterproof 
closing and permanent adhesion are 
desired, is made from litharge and 
glycerine. The litharge must be finely 
pulverized and the glycerine very concen- 
trated, thickly liquid, and clear as water. 
Both substances are mixed into a viscid, 
thickly liquid pulp. The pegs of kero- 
sene lamps, for instance, can be fixed in 
so firmly with this putty that they can only 
be removed by chiseling it out. For put- 
tying in the glass panes of aquariums it 
L S - e t 1U y valuaDle - As it can withstand 
mgher temperatures it may be success- 
fully used for fixing tools, curling irons, 
torks, etc., m the wooden handles. The 
ttuckisn putty mass is rubbed into the 
bole and the part to be fixed is inserted. 
as this putty hardens very quickly ; + 
cannot be prepared in 1 



ing horn in water and decanting the fat 
ter). The materials are to be mixed 
boiled 
for use 



mixed and 

After cooling, the putty i s rea( £ 
This is an excellent cement f 
glass, and mav be used also fur reservoirs 



! 

in 4 



ment 



purposes. It will 
equally good for glass, wood, and 



g.u.oo, « ill' *~otUYQ 

and any vessels for holding water, to Ce 
■ the cracks; also for many other 
not give way, and i< 
lass, wood, and metal 
VI. — This is especially recommended 
for boiler leaks: Mix well together 6 
parts of powdered graphite, 3 parts o£ 
slaked lime, 8 parts of heavy Hpar 
(barytes), and 8 parts of thick linseed-oil 
varnish, and apply in the ordinary way 
to the spots. 

PUTTY FOR ATTACHING SIGN-LET- 
TERS TO GLASS: 
See Adhesives, under Sign-Letter Ce- 
ments, 

PUTTY, TO REMOVE: _ 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

PUTTY POWDER, TO MAKE: 

Melt 1 ounce of tin with an equal 
weight or IV2 ounces of lead, and then 
raise the heat so as to render the mixed 
metal red hot, when the tin will be im- 
mediately flung out in the state of putty. 
It is very hard and is used for polishing 
, glass arid Japan work, also to color 
l opaque white enamel. 



„„ 1 f'-fwicvA in large quantities, 

and only enough for immediate use must 
be compounded in each case. 

ml'j! iv 7 9 arts of hydraulic lime, 0.3 

Star rtK' J P ^ S ° f roHrt - 1 Part of horn 
water (the decoction resulting from boil- 



PYROCATBCHIN 

See Photography. 



DEVELOPER: 



Pyrotechnics 

FIREWORKS. 

The chief chemical process is, of 
course, oxidation. Oxidation may 
produced by the atmosphere, but m jjwg 
cases this is not enough, and the 
pyrotechnist must employ his K no *JfJ£ 
of chemistry in selecting oxithzmg age 

The chief of these oxidizing ^f^± h 
chlorates and nitrates, the effect °t^_ 
is to promote the continuance 01 
bustion when it is once started. ^ 
are specially useful, owing to tn ^' 
non-hygroscopic nature. j [iClx £ ee dy 
ents arc needed to prevent the J 0 °;£ u ] a te 

a* 



action of the oxidizing agetttS, t0 g :^ 
the process of combustion, taS h 
calomel, sand, and sulphate o 



Thirdly, there are the active ^^ineW 
that produce the desired effect, F^ t jn 
among which are substances g p eC ifl' 
contact with flame impart ^ hrishtB* 8 * 
color to it. Brilliancy and ".^ppe* 
are imparted by steel, zinc, an 



PYROTECHNICS 



609 



✓uw substances employed are 
«^uS ^ U gunpowder, and, for 
lai»P b]a nnWS lycopodium. 
Seatre P^Sy 1* classified under 

f t^ngS&-^; rorks , which are 
«• ? err6S n the and the fire 

pl aced ; i J fr surface . 

Va^pK fireworks, which begin 

firetorf,; in which oxida- 
■ L StSse that they produce a 

Si under water. 
Lkets -First and foremost among 
RocKeib. , . e roC cets, made 

a T! pl int "izS each requiring a slightly 
»iS SlSL composition. A good 



different percentage 
formula is 



Sulphur onnrts 

o r U r d. ....... »j«u 

Meal powder 1 P ar * 

Meal powder is a fine black or brown 

dust, which acts as a diluent. 
Roman Candles.— Roman candles are 

somewhat after the same principle. An 

average formula is: 

Sulphur 4 P arts 

Carbon 3 parts 

Niter 8 parts 

CHILDREN'S SAFE FIREWORKS 
(SPARKLERS): 

Coat 12 inch lengths of No. 18 Iron 
Wire with a compound consisting of : 
Powdered sulphur ... 1 ounce 
Potassium nitrate ... 5 ounces 
Powdered charcoal . . 1% ounces 

Iron filings 2 ounces 

Aluminum powder ... Vi ounce 
raised in shellac to a thick creamy con- 
sistency. Dip the wires in the mixture 
and then insert the base end of wires in 
holes drilled into a board, until the mix- 
ture dries. Uepeat this process until each 
wire is covered with a thick coat. 

COLORED FIRES. 

The compounds should be ignited in a 
small pill box resting on a plate. All the 
agreements must be dried and powdered 
I Pa ? el /' and tkeri u g htiv mixed on a 
IW v P a P er - Always bear in mind 
*r«i j phur and chlorate of potassium 
explode violently if rubbed together. 
ta J^keless Vari-Colored Fire.— First 
e narytes or strontium, and bring to 
giowing heat in a suitable dish, remove 



1 part 



and can then be intimately mixed with 
the barytes or strontium by means of a 
spatula. After cooling, pulverize. One 
may also add about 2£ per cent of pow- 
dered magnesium to increase the effect. 
Take for instance 4 parts of barytes or 
strontium and 1 part of shellac. 

The foil owing salts, if finely powdered 
and burned in an iron ladle with a little 
spirits, will communicate to the flame 
their peculiar colors. 

Potassium nitrate or sodium chlorate, 
yellow. 

Potassium chlorate, violet. 
Calcium chloride, orange. 
Strontium nitrate, red. 
Barium nitrate, apple green. 
Copper nitrate, emerald green. 
Borax, green. 
Lithium chloride, purple. 
The colored fires are used largely in the 
production of various theatrical effects. 

Blue Fire. — 
I. — Ter-sulphuret of 

antimony 1 part 

Sulphur 2 parts 

Nitrate of potassium 6 parts 

II.— Sulphur 15 parts 

Potassium sulphate 15 parts 
Ammonio-cupric 

sulphate 15 parts 

Potassium nitrate.. 27 parts 

Potassium chlorate 28 parts 

HI —Chlorate of potash . 8 parts 

Calomel \ P ar s 

Potassium chlorrde 5 parts 

iSsTum nitrate": 77 part, 

V ._Potassium chWe 10 pag 

Copper chlorate... ^ 

water v.;: :::::: 100^ 

Vl._Copper chlorate... 100 parts 

Copper nitrate . . oU p 

Barium chlorate ... V 

Potassium chlorate 100 parts 

Alcohol 00 parta 

Water 



a 

fro 



from 4.u b #» 11 111 a suitaDie aisn, reruuvc 
UtS, t fe ' and add tne shellac. The 
vcr lunpowdered) will melt at once, 



Green.— Q ts 

L __Barium chlorate... JO 

Alcohol 100 p ar ts 

Water y . 

.. . 10 parts 

II.— Barium nltra A e - io parts 

Potassium chlorate g arts 

Alcohol 100 par ts 

Water... 



610 



PYROTECHNICS 



[L-Shellac...-., * P££ 

Barium nitrate. . • ■ 1* P arts 
Pound after cooling, and add 

Barium chlorate, 2 to 5 per cent. 



Red.— 

j —Shellac ; • • ■ ■ 

Strontium nitrate Hoi. 
Preparation as in green fire, 
weather add 2 to 4 per cent of 
chlorate to the red flame, 
causes a little more smoke. 
II —Strontium nitrate . . 20 
Potassium chlorate 10 

Alcohol 20 

Water 100 



5 parts 
.2 parts 

In damp 
potassium 
the latter 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



Yellow. — 

I. -Sulphur - 16 parts 

Dried carbonate oi 

soda 23 parts 

Chlorate of potas- 
sium <J1 P arts 

H —Sodium chlorate ... 20 parts 

Potassium oxalate. 10 parts 

Alcohol SO parts 

Water 100 P» rts 

Violet— 

- I. — Strontium chlorate. 15 parts 

Copper chlorate. . . 15 parts 

Potassium chlorate 15 parts 

Alcohol 50 parts 

Water 100 parts 

II. — Potassium chlorate 20 parts 

Strontium chlorate. 20 parts 

Copper chlorate. .. 10 parts 

Alcohol 50 parts 

Water. 100 parts 

Lilac. — 

Potassium chlorate 20 parts 

Copper chlorate . . . 10 parts 

Strontium chloride. 10 parts 

Alcohol 50 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Mauve. — 

Chlorate of potash . 28 parts 

Calomel 12 parts 

Shellac 4 parts 

Strontium nitrate. 
Cupric sulphate . . 
Fat f 

Purple. — 

Copper sulphide 

Calomel 7 parts 

aulphur . . . 2 parts 

Chlorate of potash . 16 parts 
White.— 

1— Gunpowder 15 parts 

SulpW 22 parts 

titrate of potassium 64, parts 



4 parts 
2 parts 
1 part 

8 piirts 



II. — Potassium nitrate. . . 30 parts 

Sulphur 10 parts 

Antimony sulphide 

(black) 5 parts 

Flour 3 parts 

Powdered camphor. 2 parts 

III. — Charcoal 1 par t 

Sulphur 11 parts 

Potassium sulphide. 38 parts 

IV, — Stearin e, 1 part 

Barium carbonate . . 1 part 

Milk sugar 4 parts 

Potassium nitrate .... 4 parts 

Potassium chlorate. 12 parts 

As a general rule, a corresponding 
quantity of shellac may be taken instead 
of the sulphur for inside fireworks. 

The directions for using these solu- 
tions are simply to imbibe bibulous pa- 
pers in them, then carefully dry and roll 
tightly into rolls of suitable length, accord- 
ing to the length of time they are to burn. 

Fuses. — For fuses or igniting papers, 
the following is used; 

Potassium nitrate. . . 2 parts 

Lead acetate 40 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Mix and dissolve, and in the solution 
place unsized paper; raise to nearly a boil 
and keep at this temperature Jot 20 
minutes. If the paper is to be "slow," 
it may now be taken out, dried, cut into 
strips, and rolled. If to be "faster,'"' the 
heat is to be continued longer, according 
to the quickness desired. Care must be 
taken to avoid boiling, which might dis- 
integrate the paper. 

In preparing these papers, every pre- 
caution against fire should be taken, and 
their preparation in the shop or house 
should not be thought of. In. malting 
the solutions, etc., where heat is neces- 
sary, the water bath should invariant 
be used. 

PYROTECHNIC MAGIC. 

[Caution.- When about to . pl*«i »g 
lighted material in the mouth ue 
that the mouth is well coated witn sd 1 • 
and that you are exhaling the 
tinuously, with greater or less ^ 
according to the amount of heat y 
bear. 



If the lighted material shoe's * p ; 
dency to burn the mouth, do not 't^jfa 
to drag it out quickly, but simply - ^ 
lips tight, and breathe through ta» 
and the fire must go out instantly-, a 
In the Human Gas Trick. fr0 m 
flame 10 to 15 inches long is »}°Z\n$ ^ 
the mouth, be careful after kg*" 1 - 




PYROTECHNICS 



611 



^H'nue to exhale the breath. 
##> t0 ° rKe the gas to go out, sim- 
When you desire _tn g ^ ^ ^ 

ply » h ?* ?fei?ecofds. In this trick, 
g rea th for a ^ew aQ inhalatlon 

un St e to be Tttended with the most 
ser ious resu ■ j above given may 
Tk ?/d S lifted match, first 
be eX *T after lighting the match, any 

r a Fire Paper, etc., by Breathing on 

* THs secret seems little known to 
^ w,; s Pay particular attention to 
T caution concerning phosphorus at 
it head of this article, and the caution 
respSng the dangerous nature of the 

PTffnif a half-ounce bottle with car- 
bo n disulphide and drop in 1 or 2 frag- 
ments of phosphorus, each the size of a 
pea whicE will qnickly dissolve. Shake 
the liquid, and pour out a small tea- 
spoonful onto a piece of blotting paper. 
The carbon disulphide will quickly evap- 
orate, leaving a film of phosphorus on 
the paper, which will quickly emit fumes 
and burst into flame. The once-popu- 
lar term Fenian fire was derived from 
the supposed use of this liquid by the 
Fenians for the purpose of setting fire to 
houses by throwing a_ bottle down a 
chimney or through a window, the bottle 
to break and its contents to speedily set 
fire to the place. 

For the purpose of experiment this 
liquid should only be prepared in small 
quantities as above, and any left over 
should be poured away onto the soil in 
the open air, so as to obviate the risk of 
fire. Thin paper may be fired in a sim- 
ilar manner with the acid bulbs and 
powder already mentioned. The pow- 
der should be formed into a paste, laid on 
the paper, and allowed to dry. Then the 
"id bulb is pasted over the powder. 

Burriing Brimstone. — Wrap cotton 
Ground two small pieces of brimstone 
and wet it with gasoline; take between the 
angers, squeezing the surplus liquid out, 
V a 11 Wltli a can dle, throw back the 
?ead well, and put it on the tongue blaz- 
tiS- Blow fire from mouth, and observe 
lilt*. a j f E esnl y blown-out candle may be 
t rom the flame, which makes it 
K e l e ? tive - After lighting candle 
U P bnmstone and pretend to swallow. 
Blaj 



sa2? Zing Sponge Trick.— Take 2 or 3 
poS i Sp ? nges ' P lat * them in a ladle; 
uW, i enough oil or gasoline over 
to £L Wet ^ em - B e very careful not 
Ve en ° u gh oil on them to cause them 



to drip. Set fire to the sponges and take 
one of them up with the tongs, and throw 
the head back and drop the blazing 
sponge m the mouth, expelling the 
breath all the time. Now close your 
mouth quickly; this cuts off the air from 
the flame and it immediately goes out. 
Be careful not to drop the sponge on the 
face or chin. Remove sponge under 
cover of a handkerchief before placing 
the second one in the mouth. 

Burning Sealing Wax. — Take a stick 
of common sealing wax in one hand and 
a candle in the other, melt the wax over 
the candle, and put on your tongue while 
blazing. The moisture of the mouth 
cools it almost instantly. Care should 
be taken not to get any on the lips, chin, 
or hands. 

Demon Bowls of Fire. — The performer 
has three 64-inch brass bowls on a table, 
and openly pours ordinary clean water 
(may be drunk) into bowls ? until each is 
about half full. Then by simply passing 
the hand over bowls they each take fire 
and produce a flame 12 to 20 inches high. 
Each bowl contains about_ 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of ether, upon which is placed 
a small piece of the metal potassium, 
about the size of a pea. If the ether be 
pure the potassium will not be acted 
upon. When the water is poured into 
the bowl the ether and potassium float 
up, the latter acting vigorously on the 
water, evolving hydrogen and setting fire 
thereto, and to the ether as well. _ 

The water may be poured into the 
bowl and lighted at command. In this 
case the potassium and ether are kept 
separated in the bowl, the former in a 
little cup on one side, and the latter in 

he holy of the bowl. The water » 
poured in, and on rocking the bowl it i* 
Sused to' wash into the little cup th. 
potassium floats up, and the fire is prc- 

dU N d B —The above tricks are not safe 
in anv but specially made bowls, i. 
boXwitl th P e wideW ronnd edge to 
prevent the accidental spilling of any 
portion of the burning ether. 

The Burning Banana.-Place some 
alcohol in a If A* «d«t ^ & ^JJS 
a banana in the b ^mg am 

Sparks from the Finger nj-HJSSid 
small Pieoe of tm about i nch the 

11 inches long. of this piece 

nf ft ring- lo tne lc"^ . 



ot a ring. « n ; Pt . e of tin bent m 

iWr^rS" belween the 



the shape 



612 

■ , -i ■ TT ^Hce a small piece of 
ends of th is V p a ce a ^ & . f 

Upe ,,% b u°bber Sbing aLut 2 feet in length 
D to one end .of this attach Jt holl 
Sbber ball, which you 



PYROTECHNICS 



ow 

, .I h you must partly nil 

rubber ball, ^ mcl \X ce the rubber ball 
with iron fiJW^ftSs wder the arm 
containing the . iron filmgs una 

rubber ball, the iorce 01 rub _ 
BOm e of the iron J W J^ of the 
ber tube and ^^^TinSifte and 
fcr^M sparks to ap- 
peal rain from the finger tips. 

Tn Take Boiling Lead in the Mouth.— 
The Jetl used, while not unlike lead in 
appearance, is not the ordinary metal 
St is really an alloy composed of the 
following substances; 

Bismuth.../ ? P ar * s 

Lead I P ar s 

rpj n 2 parts 

To prepare it, first melt the lead in a 
crucible, then add the bismuth and finally 
the tin, and stir well together with a piece 
of tobacco pipe stem. This "fusible 
metal" will melt in boiling water, and a 
teaspoon cast from the alloy will melt if 
very hot water be poured into it, or if 
boiling water be stirred with it. If the 
water be not quite boiling, as is pretty 
sure to be the case if tea from a teapot is 
used, in all probability the heat will be 
insufficient to melt the spoon. But by 
melting the alloy and adding to it a small 
quantity of quicksilver a compound will 
be produced, which, though solid at the 
ordinary temperature, will melt in water 
very much _ below the boiling point. 
Another variety of easily fusible alloy is 
made by melting together 

Bismuth 7 to 8 parts 

Lead 4 p arts 

Tin 2 parts 

Cadmium 1 to 2 parts 

This mixture melts at 158°, that given 
above at 208° F. 

( Either one of the several alloys above 
given will contain considerably leas heat 
man lead and in consequence be the 
more suitable for the purposes of a "Fire 

bph&Y body is melted k ia ™i«d to a 
ESS? ^Perature and then gets no 
an »l ' no \ eve ^ >f the fire be increased — 
maiad J*^ bea i goes to melt the re- 
mamaer of the substance. 



Second Method.— This i is done with a 
ladle constructed similarly to the tin Cu 
in a previous trick. 1 he lead, genuine & 
this case, is, apparently, drunk from the 

that it 



ladle, which is then tilted, L ucu it to a T 
be seen to be empty. I he lead is COn 
cealed in the secret interior of the laul e 
and a solid piece of lead is m conclusion 
dropped from the mouth, as congealed 
metal. 

To Eat Burning Coals.— In the first 
place make a good charcoal fire in th e 
furnace. Just before commencing th e 
act throw in three or four pieces of soft 
pine. When burnt to a coal one cannot 
tell the difference between this and char- 
coal, except by sticking a fork into it. 
This will not burn in the least, while the 
genuine charcoal will. You _ can stick 
your fork into these coals without any 
difficulty, but the charcoal is brittle and 
hard; it breaks before the fork goes into 
it- 

Chain of Fire. — Take a piece of candle 
wick 8 or 10 inches long, saturated with 
kerosene oil, squeeze out surplus oil. 
Take hold of one end with your fire tongs, 
light by furnace, throw back your head, 
and lower it into your mouth wkiU ex- 
haling the breath freely. When all in, 
close your lips and remove m kandker- 

Ivoxe — Have a good hold of the end 
with the tongs, for if it should fall it would 
probablv inflict a serious burn; for this 
reason also no burning oil must drop 
from the cotton. 

Biting Off Red-Hot Iron.— Take a 
piece of hoop iron about 2 feet long, 
place it in a vise and bend it backward 
and forwards, about an inch f rem »J 
end, until it is nearly broken oil. 
this in a furnace until it becomes led a ■ 
then take it in your right hand, grasp 
broken end in your teeth, being ■caw 
not to let it touch your bps or 
tongue, make a "face" as i though n ^ 
terribly hard to bite off, and » 
broken end drop from betweer you ^ 
into a pail of water (which you | ^ 
■ '--- J in case of "V, 
induce the 



always have at hand 
when the hissinc will 



behef 
_ ■ , ^ t iU "red 

that the portion bitten on ia jf tb« 
hot"- 



[it: uuruou u'^ 1 -" — ..„,. it 

-it may be, for that matte* 
iron be nearly broken off in tne u > ■ _ n0 t 
and if you have good teeth an" 
afraid to injure them. ^ 
"Water Stirred Yellow, Scarjj*' h ofl e 
Colorless.— Obtain a glass tu&e -pto* 
end hermetically sealed and am Illt o» n 
fine point that will break eas cUf y bl * 
ale glass put a solution ot m 



QUICK- WATER — RAT POISONS 



■ ve sublimate, a deadly 
chloride ( c ,°? 0 £ the tube a strong sol u- 
vo^n) *f 'f u ° ra iodide so adjusted in 
8«» ° yBSS ^ redissoHe the scarlet 
length that it^ h umon 0 f the 

precipe ,or ^hiie rtirring the solution 

t*° liqU i 1 ^' the bottom of the tube (ap- 
tb e ffU8st M ° . broken an d a 

"V a ghisf allowed to 




e^Pfti 1 balance of the tiujd in tiie tuuc 
l et - WfhSrby simply keeping, the 
is retained there y ^ £ ont ie 

thum ^ ° „ 1 lEg the balance of the 
the stirring, allowi ^ the 

COUt ff Add again becomes colorless. 
Adore the scarlet appears the hqmd is 

^Wbten the effect, another ale 
, T Snine only clean water and a 
glaf iimn - rJd, may be handed 
5011(1 g oTthe com pany with instructions 
rdol same as the performer; the 
result is amusing. 

RADIATOR CAPS. HOW TO CE- 
MENT: „, 

A 20 per cent solution of sodium silicate 
or water glass is mixed with zinc dust and 
wMting (% zinc dust, % whiting). This 
will take about 6 hours to set. 

A paste of white lead, red lead and Un- 
seed oil may be also used but it takes 
longer to set. 

RADIATOR COMPOUND (Auto- 
mobiles): , 

To stop small leaks quickly put tne 
white of two eggs in the radiator whue 
the water is cold. 

RASPBERRY ADE POWDER: 

See Salts, Effervescent. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP: 
See Essences and Extracts. 

Rat Poisons 

(See also Turpentine.) 

Poisons for rats may be divided into 
two classes, quick and slow. Potassium 
cyanide and strychnine belong to the 
hrst, and phosphorus and arsenic to the 
second. Both should be 



„ JJUILI » 

irom children, dogs, and cats, and this is 
west done by putting them in places too 
narrow for anything larger than a rat to 
squeeze into. *• ■* p 



*ti""~« 1 ' " lLU " ^ *he poison is too quick, 
T. ettec l of it is visible to the same rats 
r &1 ch saw the cause, and those which 
Gave nnt _r ^-l _ i. ;n i~- if 



echble things in the pantry, by vomiting. 
Slow poisons generally cause the rat to 
seek water, and when they are used 
water should not be left about promis- 
cuously. 

The substances most useful as rat 
poisons, and which are without danger 
to the larger domestic animals, are plas- 
ter of Paris and fresh squills. Less dan- 
gerous than strychnine and arsenic are 
the baryta preparations, of which the 
most valuable is barium carbonate. 
Like plaster of Paris, this substance, 
when used for the purpose, must be 
mixed with sugar and meal, or flour, and 
as a decoy some strong-smelling cheese 
should be added. In closed places there 
should be left vessels containing water 
easily accessible to the creatures. 

One advantage over these substances 
possessed by the squill is that it is greed- 
ily eaten by rats and mice. When it is 
used, however, the same precaution as 
to water, noted above, is necessary, a 
circumstance too frequently forgotten. 
In preparing the squill for this purpose, 
by the addition of bacon, or fat meat o 
any kind, the use of a decoy like chees 
is unnecessary, as the fats are sufii 
ciently appetizing to the rodents. It 
to be noted that only fresh squills shoy 1 
be used for this purpose, as in keepi 
the bulb the poisonous principle is c 
stroyed, or, at least, is so modified as t 
seriously injure its value. 

Squill Poisons.— The preparation 
the squill as a rat poison can be eftecte 
in several different ways. Usually, af 
ter the removal of the outer peel.the 
bulb is cut up into little slices and mn jed 
with milk and flour; these are sti md 
into a dough or paste, which wrth brts 

This method of Preparmg them nec". 

aration that keeps well: 

tt . l A 500 grama 
L— Hog's lard ...... B * 

Acid salicylic... a g ulb 

l^suet'. i:::^ 50 to 100 grams- 
Barium carbon- 500 grams 

ate .*'*** 

Solution of am- 
monium cop- 
per acetate, 2U 5Q ms 
cent- sma ll 



Via *-<!LiaC, ill 1(1 V 

JJve not eaten of the bait will lea 
bW *u the ot her hand, if it is wu 
™ the poisoned rat may spread it to 



ave it 
is too 



Cut or grate te J^J £e, Tn- 
STt ha»eo a dark-browo color and 



RAT POISONS 



Flour or meal, enough. 
Water, enough. 

Make into a stiff mass, divide into 
small cakes, and bake. 

Phosphorus Poisons.— Next to the 
ill fin value as a poison comes phos- 
Xrus inlhe shape P of an electuary or 
L pills For readily preparing the 
Sectuary when needed or ordered, it is 
: le gl U d ry plan to keep on hand a phos- 
phorate<f syrup made as foU°™L . 
P To 200 parts of simple syrup, m a 
strong flask add 50 parts of P^phorus 
and 10 parts of talc powder; place he 
Container in a suitable vesse and sur- 
round it with water heated tc .120 to 
130° F. and let it stand until the phos- 
phorus is melted. Now, cork the flask 
well, tie down the cork, and agitate until 
the mixture is completely cold. As a 
measure of precaution, the flask should 
be wrapped with a cloth. 

To make the poison take 50 parts of 
rye flour and mix with it 10 parts of pow- 
dered sugar. To the mixture add about 
40 parts of water and from 30 to 40 parts 
»)f the phosphorated syrup, and mix the 
mass thoroughly. 

While it is best to make the phosphor- 
ated syrup fresh every time that it is 
required, a stable syrup can be made as 
follows: 

Heat together very carefully in a water 
bath 5 parts of phosphorus, 3 parts of 
sublimed sulphur, and 30 parts of water, 
until the phosphorus is completely 
melted and taken up; then add 30 parts 
of wheat flour and 6 parts of ground 
mustard seed, and work up, with the ad- 
dition of warm water from time to time, 
if necessary, in to a stiff paste, finally 
adding and working in from 1 to 2 parts 
or oil of anise. 

: B . orax ' m powder, it may be noticed, 
is also useful as a preservative of phos- 
P ™ a ! ed P aBte or electuary, 
fm- Ji ^ m g ives th e following formula 
purp? S e^ P hos P h °rus for this 

Phosphorus, granu- 
lated i _„ i 



Hager's formula for 
globules" is as follows; 

II.— Phosphorus, amor- 
phous 

Glycerine. 



"Phospb,. 



1° parts 
20 



vyij^t-n.^ zu parts 

Linseed, powdered 100 p ar t R 

Meat extract IS par 

Quark, recently coagulated 
tity sufficient. 



Parts 
parts 



Mix, and make a mass, and divi 1 
into 200 globules weighing about u 
grains each. Koll in wheat flour i 
which a little powdered sugar has be 



mixed. 



Phosphorus electuary, made as indi- 
cated above, may be smeared upon bits 
of fried bacon, which should be tacked 
firmly to a bit of board or to the floor 
It is essential that either flour or sugar" 
or both, be strewn over the surface of 
the phosphorus. 

The most convenient in practice, on 
the whole, are the phosphorus globules, 
either made after Hager's formula, or' 
more readily, by adding rye flour and 
sugar to the electuary and working up 
to a pill mass, or barium carbonate and 
.plaster may be added. 

Arsenical Poisons. — The following are 
some of the formulas given by Hager for 
preparing globules, or pills, of arsenic: 

I. — Arsenic, white, pow- 
dered 100 parts 

Soot from the kitch- 
en 5 parts 

Oil of anise 1 part 

Lard, sufficient. 

Wheat flour., sufficient. 

Make into 400 globules. 

II.— Beef suet 500 parts 

Rye flour.. . 500 parts 

Arsenic, white, pow- 
dered 50 parts 

Ultramarine 10 parts 

Oil of anise 1 P art 

Melt the suet, and add to the flour, 
mix in the other ingredients, and wo ^ 
while hot, beating the mass with a r 
Make 1,000 globules. 

Strychnine Poisons.— The 
preparations are also vaKtab ie first 
destruction of rats and mice- s | r yeh- 
of these in point of usefulness .^ryeii* 
nine-wheat, or stryehnine-oats L ^ 
ninweizen or Strvehninhafer,, m l0 g 
portion of 1 part of strychnine ■ BT ed 
150 parts of wheat or oat flour, F ^ 0 
by dissolving 1 part of strychnin uj > 



ell 

to ,50"parts"of hoTw^ter, rnixi^*' 6 



with the flour, and drying > n 



RAZOR PASTES— REFRIGERANTS 



615 



■ • _ maV also be used on 
batb- Str Ltd meatfsausage etc by 
S powder, or the heads of 
Lertion of tin- P d aI1 d the powder 
£ed fi sh T ?n S ide The latter is an 
r d ^d ? method, since the odor 
especially deaaiy ful i ure , as also 

ff the fish *^ c Jn or other fats used in 
do the bite of bacon . g ^ & ^ 

^^^or' strychnine, acting as a power- 



" J »ch^e-lph 1 ajga 

Sugar niuK- 
Prussian blue. 

Sugar 

Oat flour 



5 grains 
^ ounce 
| ounce 



1 pound 
1 ounce 



flux Vomica Poison. 

Oatmeal 

Powdered nux vomica 

Oil of anise - - • • 5 <f ops 

Tincture of asafetida. 5 drops 

Barium Poison.— 

Barium carbonate.. . . 4 ounces 

Sugar J OUIlce * 

Oatmeal flounces 

Oil of anise 4 drops 

Oil of caraway 4 drops 

RAZOR PAPER: ■ 

See Paper. 

RAZOR PASTES: 

See also Pastes. 

The razor pastes, razor creams, etc., 
on the market, have for their cutting, or 
sharpening, agent jewelers' rouge, or 
rouge and emery. When emery is used 
it should be ground to an impalpable 
powder and levigated. 

I.— The simplest formula is a mixture 
in equal parts of rouge and emery pow- 
der, rubbed up with spermaceti ointment. 
Coke is also used as a cutting agent. 
Suet, prepared lard, in fact, any greasy 
or soapy substance, -will answer for the 
vehicle. 

II.— Melt 1,000 parts of beef tallow 
and pour £50 parts of oil to it. To this 
Mixture, which is uniformly combined 
b y thorough stirring, add in the same 
banner 150 parts of washed emery, 100 
Parts of tin ashes, and 50 parts of iron 
oxide. The stirring of these ingredients 
must ° e continued until the mass is cool, 
« otherwise they would be unevenly 
2 Routed. The leather of the strop 
snould be rubbed with this grease, ap- 
plying 11 .... 6 i . i- „ 



, , — ~~ i uuucu wixn xms grease, ay 
only small quantities at a time, 
ver renders ^ possible to produce a 
r y uniform coating, since little quanti- 
« penetrate the fibers of the leather 
m Me easily. 



III.— Tin putty [tin 

ashes) £ parts 

Colcothar 2 parts 

Forged iron scales 

or filings ....... l part 

Pure levantine hon- 
ing stone finely 

powdered 7 parts 

Beef suet 3 parts 

All the ingredients with the exception 
of the suet should be finely powdered. 
The suet is melted, the ingredients poured 
in, and the whole thoroughly mixed to 
form a doughy mass. 

IV. — Colcothar 1$ parts 

Pumice stone li parts 

Graphite parts 

Bloodstone (red 

hematite) % parts 

Iron filings 1 part 

These ingredients are finely powdered, 
washed, and mixed with the following: 

Grafting wax % parts 

Soap 2 P arts 

Lard 2 parts 

Olive oil 2 parts 

Naturally the fatty ingredients are to 
be heated before the solid substances are 
commingled with them. 

The side of the blade to be polished 
should be treated with the following 
compositions^ g putty) rubbed d 

to a fine powder on a honing stone and 
mixed with axle grease. . . , 

b. Washed graphite mingled with 

olive oil. 

PFDUCER TO MAKE BUST 

Smaller and firmer: 

50 crams Lanolin 
50 grams Vaseline 
20 drops Tincture of Benzoin 
Mixed with water in which 10 jr*n* 
of iodide of potassium has been ois- 
solved. 

Refrigeration 

The only way to produce and maintain 
low temperatures is i ay mecha nical 
mechanical refrigeration M ni rf 
methods ^pend upon the com^ ^ 
a gas or volatde liquia. * The 
accomplished by a ?um V by 
compressed vapor i After cooling 

water or a current ^ot air r 
it is allowed to expan ^ wMch 
chamber " to fall. The ex- 

the cycle repeated. 



616 



REFRIGERATION— RHUBARB 



retain chemicals also produce a low 
femnerature when dissolved in water. 
SinaSons of chemicals have been de- 
veloped wWch will cause a very consid- 
erable fall. ., , • 

SSJd often enougfor rapidly enough 
to keep the temperature down 

The familiar combination of ice and 
salt is one which is useful in making ice 
cream. It is low in cost and very ef- 

Other combinations such as those listed 
below are also effective but they are 
limited to laboratory use, because this 
effect is momentary just as with ice and 
salt. Some of these combinations pro- 
duce a drop in temperature greater than 
ice and salt, especially if snow or ice is 
used instead of water. 

Another method of producing low 
temperatures quickly is to fill a beaker 
with ether or methyl chloride and to pass 
a current of air through the liquid. A 
tube of water placed in the beaker will 
freeze very quickly. 

Carbon dioxide which has been com- 
pressed until it becomes solid is now sold 
by the pound and its cost is reasonable. 
When allowed to evaporate it produces 
very low temperatures for a considerable 
length of time. 

REFRIGERANTS. 

I. — Potassium nitrate ... 2 pounds 
Ammonium chloride 3 pounds 
Water 5 pints 



1 



II. — Potassium nitrate. . . 
Ammonium chloride 
Sodium sulphate.. . , 
Water 9 



III. — Ammonia nitrate . .. 4 

Water 4 

IV. — Sodium sulphate .... 8 
Dilute hydrochloric 

acid 



Si pounds 
%\ pounds 
pounds 
pints 

pounds 
pints 



parts 
parts 



simple chemical refrigerant which 
efficient and at the same time low in 
cost is the following: 

Prepare a ten per cent dilution of 
Bulphuric acid in water. Place this in 
a wooden tub or stone jug and allow to 
cool. Add a handful of Glauber's salts 
tor each quart of solution. The temper- 
ature will drop sharply, and the cooler 
the solution is to start with the lower 
m * resulting temperature wiE be. 

Under good conditions a test tube of 



m the 



water may be frozen by placing it 
mixture. 

Home -Made Refrigerators.— I.— ]W. 
fill with water a shallow granite-ware r>J 
place it in an open, shady window wW* 
there is a good draught of air. I n th £ 
put bottles of water milk, and Crea 
(sealed), wrapped with wet cloths reach, 
ing into the water. Put butter in ai) 
earthen dish deep enough to prevent 
water getting in. Over this turn an 
earthen flower- pot wrapped with a wet 
cloth reaching into the water. The p au 
should be fixed every morning and 
evening. With several of these pans one 
can keep house very comfortably without 
ice. 

II. — Procure a wire meat-safe — that is 
a box covered by wire netting on three 
sides, with a fly-proof door. On top 
place a deep pan filled with water. Take 
a piece of burlap the height of the pan 
and safe, and of sufficient length to reach 
around the entire safe. Tack it fast 
where the door opens and closes. Tuck 
the upper edge m the water. Place it 
where there is a draught and where the 
dripping will do no damage. This con- 
stitutes a well -ventilated refrigerator 
that costs nothing but water to maintain. 

III. — Take a store box, any convenient 
size, and place in this a smaller box, 
having the bottom and space around the 
sides packed with sawdust. Have a 
galvanized iron pan made, the size of the 
inside box and half as deep, to hold the 
ice Have the pan made with a spout 
6 inches long to drain off the water as 
the ice melts. Bore a hole the size of tw 
spout through the double bottom and 
sawdust packing to admit the spouj 
Short legs may be nailed on the sides « 
the box and a vessel set underneath to 
catch the drippings. Put on a tiff 
board cover. A shelf may be pJacec i 
the box above the ice. This box w 
keep ice for three days. . , 

IV. — Select a large cracker box J 
a hinged cover, Knock out the U 
and cut windows in each side, J ea ^ e . 
3-inch frame, over which tack wire jS* fi y 
In the coolest part of the cellar Oig , 
the earth to a level depth of 3 inclies 

fit the box into the space. . . nC *of 
Mix plaster of Paris to a coUS f]Ziot » 
thick cream and pour into the v_ j^jjfg 
J-inch thick bottom. Twentymo" 



will harden it sufficiently, 
and catch on the lid. A bos 
can be cleaned easil}', n 



sort 

cannot penetrate it. 

To Drain a Refrigerator 



an< 



-I 



-II^ e 




ROLLER COMPOSITIONS— ROPES 



*• funnel made, 7 inches in diam- 
* stoUt i ton The tube portion should 
Meratthetop. . * { d of uniform 

bfat 1-* Vore a hole through the 
S^wtlv under the drain-pipe of the 
floor directly m funnel then force 

refrig^ a o ; ul e r tubing (a tight fit) over 
8 piece of rub er & gide _ p 
the funnel f rom * boJe cut m the 
+11 bins tnrou to " „; n J nw . «,nd 



* e tU Wme of a cellar window, and 
scre - eC 'n oTnv convenient place This 
^ "Ji * necessity of continually emp- 
&v0id \t d^SpL and prevents the 
Sow ttt 1 fluently occurs when 




^^S^imple device saves the in- 
II.— ims simi drip-pan under 

convenience of havm a P j . ^ 
t i nP refrigerator: ii '""e . » 
Led near the outer wall get a piece of 
placed neat „ noUf rh to reach from 

K wts e° P M Stride of the wall. 
BoJa hoFe through the wall under the 
refritrerator, where baseboard and floor 
S ef Attach the hose to the waste-pipe 
and pass through the hole m the wall. A 
S trough outside should carry the 
water away from the house. 

ROLLER COMPOSITION'S FOR PRINT- 
ERS. 

Rollers for transferring ink to types 
have to possess special properties, 
which have reference both to the nature 
of the ink and that of the types to which 
it is to be transferred. They must be as 
little liable as possible to changes of tem- 
perature. They -must be sticky, but 
only just sticky enough, and must have 
elasticity enough to exert a uniform 
pressure over the varying surface with 
which they meet in the form. Origi- 
nally, the composition was one of glue 
and molasses in varying proportions, and 
the only practical improvement that has 
been made is the addition of glycerine. 
This being slightly hygroscopic, helps to 
keep the roller at the right degree of 
softness, and being practically unfreez- 
able, it is a great assistance in keeping 
tae rollers from hardening in cold 
weather. 

The recipes given in technical works 
tor Panting roller compositions are 
numerous and very different. All con- 
ti" 1 ghie and molasses, and it is the prac- 
roM PUt a lar e er proportion of glue in 
nets to be used in the summer than in 
W G la . tend ed for winter use. The fol- 

™ ln g is a selection of recipes: 
Wa+ ' Soak 8 pounds of glue in as much 
no 11 wiU a hsorb. When there is 
and !i j ^ ater < tr eat the glue till melted, 
a Qd 7 pounds of hot molasses. 



II- — Glue (summer).. . . 8 pounds 

Glue (winter) 4 pounds 

Molasses 1 gallon 

III. — Molasses 12 pounds 

Glue 4 pounds 

IV. — Molasses 24 pounds 

Glue 16 pounds 

Paris white 2 pounds 

V. — Glue or gelatin. ... 64 pounds 

Water 48 pounds 

Linseed oil 96 pounds 

Molasses or sugar. 

64 to 96 pounds 
Chloride of calcium 3 pounds 
Powdered rosin ... 8 pounds 

Soak the glue in the water and then 
liquefy by heat. Then stir in the oil, 
first heated to 150° F. Then add the 
molasses and the chloride of calcium, 
and finally the fused rosin. The latter 
ingredient is only to be added when very 
tough rollers are required. This recipe 
is interesting from the inclusion in it of 
the hygroscopic salt, chloride of calcium, 
the object of which is obviously to keep 
the rollers moist. 

ROOFS, HOW TO LAY GALVANIZED. 

See Household Formulas. 

ROOFS. PREVENTION OF LEAKAGE: 

See Household Formulas. 

ROOF PAINTS: 

See Paint. 
ROOM DEODORIZER: 
See Household Formulas. 

ROPES. , j 1 tVia 

To protect ropes, cordage and cloths 
j £V fl„„ nT1 a hemp against rot, n nas 
bee? to P l«Te them for 4 

Says in a solution of copper sulphate,^ 
parts by weight to a .liter, tn ^ 
them to dry fmd g» n to ^ 
copper sulphate beings ^ & | 

the latter case an 



LUC "tti^'l L T 

soap— 1 ^ 10 ' In 
insoluble copper 



secure the same « been recoin . 



following pro^ ^ an hoUr m a 

mended: Place the str ihl &nd 
solution of glue, then a- ^ * £ *' Miet 



but to prevent 

, isabl e to « Wfr * 2*5 
■eference 



away < 
ible 



pVrfereno. to the tar, as articles steeped 



618 



ROT — RUBBER 



w ;th elue and tannin in the 
treatment mm giu drawback tha t it 

?S to^mSe the string .too stiff and 
pS'ble, and thus impair its usefulness. 

ROPE LUBRICANTS: 

See Lubricant. 
ROPES, WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing. 

ROSE CORDIAL: 

See Wines and Liquors. 

ROSEWOOD : 

See Wood. 
ROSE POWDERS: 

See Cosmetics. 
ROSIN, TESTS FOR, IN EXTRACTS : 

See Foods. 

ROSIN OIL : 
See Oil. 

ROSIN STICKS: 
See Depilatories. 

ROT: 

Remedies for Dry Rot— A good remedy 
for dry rot is petroleum. The sick parts 
of the wood are painted with it, which 
causes the fungi to die, turn black, and 
finally drop off. The best preventive of 
dry rot is plenty of draught. If the por- 
tions are already affected so badly that 
they must be removed and renewed, the 
freshly inserted wood is coated with "car- 
bolineum" to prevent a fresh appearance 
of dry rot. Another remedy is ordinary 
salt, which is known to have a highly 
hygroscopic action. It absorbs the moist- 
ure of the wood, whereby it is itself dis- 
solved, thus gradually impregnating the 
planks, etc. In order to combat dry rot 
with salt, proceed as follows: Throw salt 
into boiling water until a perfectly satu- 
rated solution is obtained. With this 
repeatedly wash the wood and masonry 
afflicted with dry rot. Wherever practi- 
cable the salt may be sprinkled direct 
upon the affected place. 

ROUGE: 

See Cosmetics. 

ROUGE FOR BUFF WHEELS. 

The rouge employed by machinists, 
watchmakers, and jewelers, is obtained 
SL+ r - y sub ! e cting crystals of sul- 
It 1\ 9 V ir fL n or c °PPeras to a high heat 
by which the sulphuric acid is expelled 

Portion, °1 Xld ! ° £ ,' r .° n «™«n B . Those 
we uin f east c T ^ ilied ' when ground, 
These »l ?i? 0l, u shin ^ * old ancf silver 
darlJr a 1 bn * ht «™son color. The 

Known as crocus,- an d are used for 



polishing brass and steel. Others p 
fer for the production of rouge the p er 
oxide of iron precipitated by ammonia" 
from a dilute solution of sulphate of i ron 
which is washed, compressed until <l ry ' 
then exposed to a low red heat and 
ground to powder. Of course, there are 
other substances besides rouge which 
are employed in polishing, as powdered 
emery, kieselguhr, carborundum, rotten 
stone, etc. 

ROUGE POWDER: 

See Polishes. 

ROUGH STUFF: 

See Wood. 

ROUP CURES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

Rubber 

ARTIFICIAL RUBBER. 

Austin G. Day tried hundreds of ex- 
periments and took out many patents 
for rubber substitutes. He was in a 
measure successful, his "Kerite" com-* 
pound proving of great value and being a 
result of his seeking for something that 
would wholly supplant rubber. As far 
back as 1866" he made public the results 
of some of his work, giving as formulas 
for rubber substitutes the following 
compounds: 

I. — Linseed oil 2 pounds 

Cottonseed oil 1 pound 

Petroleum 2 pounds 

Raw turpentine .... 2 pounds 

Sulphur 2 pounds 

Boil 2 hours. 

II.— Linseed oil 2 pounds 

Cottonseed oil 1 pound 

Petroleum 1 P 011 ™ 

Raw turpentine 2 pounds 

Castor oil 1 P oun< ^ 

Sulphur 2 pounds 

Boil J hour. 

III. — Linseed oil... 2 pounds 

Cottonseed oil 1 P ou "5 

Petroleum 1 P oU "J 

Raw turpentine .... } P°^ ds 

Liquid coal tar 3 po A 

Peanut oil... J P d 

Spirits turpentine... 1 ds 

Sulphur * * 

Boil 35 minutes. 

IV. -Iinse.doi, • gSSf 

Cottonseed oil * louflds 

Petroleum... 3 P j 

Raw turpentine .... 0 s noun" 3 

Liquid coal tar. - . ■ - ~ P 




RUBBER 



619 



Sp ; r its turpentine... 1 P°™d 

Rubber . ■ g pounds 

Sulpbur 

B0U 1 Tm, Day had brought his 
In - 187 ntiJ^down to the foflowmg 

forIfl ula: pounds 

v ^Cottonseed oil ^ £ ounds 

T ' Linseed oil. • g nds 

Asphalturn • • g pounds 

Coal tar •*' 1Q pounds 

Sulphur i pound 

raninbor f * 

7 ■ l\ a t*r and asphaltum were 

In t ^ 1 % t dth the cottonseed oil, after 
first mixed ^th tbe cot ^ ^ ^ 

which was added u s ulphur, 

Earthy matter 5 pounds 

To be mixed and heated to 300° F 
and then strained and cooled to 200 J. 
Then were added 27 pounds linseed ^o 1 
the heat raised to 220° F., and 15 to 18 
pounds of sulphur added, the heat being 
continually raised until the mass was sul- 
phurized. When the heat reached 240 
F 1 to H ounces of nitric acid were 
added, and at 270° to 280° F , from 1 to 
3 ounces camphor were added to neip 
the sulphurization. The resultant com- 
pound was used on the following basis: . 

Yll.—Para rubber 20 pounds 

Litharge 5 pounds 

Sulphur 1 pound 

Above com- 

pound 20 to 40 pounds 

Mr. Day did not insist on the com- 
pound quoted, but advised that the pro- 
portions be varied as widely as the exi- 
gencies of the case might demand. 
Whiting, barytes, infusorial earth, white 
lead, blacks, in fact almost any of the 
oxides, carbonates, or earthy materials 
commonly used in compounding, were 
used in connection with his substitute, 
as also were any grades of crude rubber. 
Among other ingredients that he found 
°* use in making his substitutes were 
vegetable and animal waxes, together 
with ozokerite and paraffine. These 
were only used in small quantities, and 
always in connection with the linseed 
a V , cottonseed oils, and generally as- 
Phaltum or coal tar. One of his 
compounds also called for a quantity of 
golden sulphuret of antimony, presum- 



ably to assist in the sulphurization, and 
a small amount of tannic acid. 

Another line of experimenting that is 
interesting, and that will yet produce 
good results, although so far it has not 
amounted to much, is in the use of cellu- 
lose. A very simple formula is of 
French origin and calls for the treating 
of cellulose with sulphuric acid, washing, 
drying, granulating, treating with resi- 
nate of soda — which is afterwards pre- 
cipitated by sulphate of alumina — then 
drying and molding under pressure. As 
a matter of fact, the resultant mass would 
not be mistaken for rubber. An Eng- 
lish formula is more like it. This con- 
sists of 

VIII.— Cellulose 15 pounds 

Pitch 25 pounds 

Asphalt 20 pounds 

Silica 20 pounds 

Mastic 5 pounds 

Bitumen 5 pounds 

Rosin 10 pounds 

Coal tar 12 pounds 

This makes a thick gummy varnish 
which is of little use except as for its 
waterproof qualities. Allen s formula 
for a cellulose substitute might have a 
value if it were carried further. It is 
made up of 100 pounds of {™inous wooc 
pulp treated with animal gelatin, 100 
Sounds asphalt, and 10 pounds asphalt 
oil all heated and molded. 

The Greening process ^b^ p ^ s E JS 
lish, is more elaborate than Al en s, bu 
seems a bit laborious and costly. Th. 
process calls for the trea itjnent of the 
Cellulose by a mixture of . 
and nitrate of potash, -ff^J^Jc 
a treatment to a bath of liqu id c 
acid. When dry again, it is nuxe 
retort with refined 1 rosm gum ^ 



aisiUJaicii"*" ----- 

over anhydrous lime subst j t utes is 

' ^° th e e d\ C pTSetUfglneandglyc- 
fonl of these have use- ....... 



erine. Some ot ^ " of n0 

others, that look very rart . they 
use at all, for the s >^ t as readily as a 
W ill absorb wato al£«t these is more 
dry sponge. The trst tQ be of 

than 30 years «!f jn j a . g . 
French origin. X ne 

4 pounds 

IX.— Glue.. _ 8 ounces 

Glycerine g ounces 

&Icid;i-poundin5pounds 

Tenyears^H^K^^ 



an 



English formula in 



620 



u ,t™h and acetic acid, chromic and 
thenutgal ana a substitu t e d and a 

UU T^m of ground cork was added as a 

nearest approach being the gk«e * nd 
glycerine compound used as a cover iw 

^•^Xtitutes that have really come 
jntoi,* generally, are made ^er from 



RUBBER 



The su 
^to use 

linseed, cottonseed, or maize 01 



e nave ubcu ^^.^^^ 

ds of dollars have been spent by 
promoters and owners in trying to make 
fhese gums do just what crude rubber 
L-ii A airman formula which was 



of these have been produced and thou 
'Iars 
i own 
o jus 

will. A German form 
partially successful is 

X, — Linseed oil , in s ol u- 

tion SO pounds 

Lime- hardened 

rosin, in solution SO pounds 

Add to above 

Sulphur 8 pounds 

Linseed oil 42 pounds 

Add 20 pounds sulphur and heat to 
375° F. 

Rubber and Rubber Articles. — As re- 
gards the action of coal gas on rubber 
tubes, it has been observed that it is 
weakest on ordinary gray rubber which 
withstands it the longest, and gives off 
no odor. Red rubber is more readily 
affected, and the black kind still more so. 

To prevent rubber tubes from drying 
up and becoming brittle, they should be 
coated with a 3 per cent aqueous solution 
of carbolic acid, which preserves them. 
If they have already turned stiff and 
brittle, they can be rendered soft and 
pliant again by being placed in ammonia 
which has been made liquid with double 
the amount of water. 

In France rubber tubes are used as a 
core for casting pipes from cement and 
sand. In order to construct a connected 
pipe conduit in the ground, a groove is 
aug and a layer of cement mortar spread 
out. Upon this the rubber tube is laid, 
flS 13 ^ ra PP ed VP in canvas and in- 
nWT i ■ e , rem aimng portion of the 

2 rfulS £ rubber , h °se and the latter 
nmied out and used as before. 



, - — UUIJ auu useo as betore. 

crnetly employed for dissolving tl 
ber, naphtha, alcohol, and benzol 
are : mixed with purified solid na 
and ground together. P 



Rubber boots and shoes are rend 
waterproof by melting 4 parts of Uer ed 
maceti and 1 part of rubber on a modV 
fire, adding tallow or fat, 10 parts , 
lastly 5 parts of copal varnish or am? 
varnish. This mixture is applied or iT 
shoes with a brush. It should ho J 1 , 



shoes with a brush. It should be , 
that the rubber used % this 

to 



must be cut up very small and allowed! 
to 5 hours to dissolve. u * 

To rid rubber articles of unpl eas 
vuor, cover both sides with a layer of 
animal charcoal and heat to about Ho° p 
To prevent gas from escaping through 
rubber hose, cover it with a mixture pre- 
pared as follows: Dissolve 5 parts of 
gum arabic and 3 parts of molasses in lg 
parts of white wine and add, with con- 
stant stirring, 6 partsof alcohol in small 
quantities. Stirring is necessary to pre- 
vent the alcohol from precipitating the 
gum arabic. 

Repairing Rubber Goods. — First, clean 
off all adherent matter, and dry thorough- 
ly. Varnish or lacquer, as for instance on 
rubber shoes, may be removed with sand 
or emery paper, or even with a file, in the 
absence of one of these. The surface 
thus produced is then rubbed with ben- 
zine. A solution of Para rubber in ben- 
zine is then painted over the surface 
around the break or tear, and a strip of 
natural rubber fitted over it. Then pre- 
pare a vulcanizing solution as follows: 
Sulphur chloride.. . . 18 parts 

Benzine 400 parts 

Carbon disulphide . . 300 parts 

This is applied to the edges of the joint 
by means of a pledget of cotton wrapped 
on the end of a little stick, and press the 
jointed parts well together. , 

One may repair rubber bulbs by tie 
following method: Tut some pure gum in 
three times its bulk of benzine, and coru 
tightly. Let stand several days, 
some rubber in sheet form; it will be Dei 
ter if it is backed with cloth ^JJJg 
a patch, dampen some little <hS ^ 
around the hole to be mended * 
benzine. After a momen t, scrape v a 
knife; repeat the process several 
till the site to be patched is Jujgg 
clean. Cut a patch from sheet ot ru 
a little larger than the hole to be m& of 
and apply to its surface several & 
the benzine solution. 

Then aPP; h 
good coat of the solution to botn 
and about the hole, and press u ^lu- 
firmly in place. Again apply u fl pd 
tion to make coating over the P»* f be 
allow to dry till it will not stick 
finger. Do not use for several cw ^ 
Cracked rubber goods may » 



RUBBER 



621 



cesser;" patching, tJae eracseg sur- 
** : p fo ^ te P weU must be dried entirely 



the cracked sur- 



mecded in the following man- 
re I 

faces ^ i l e i] W dTrt i and dust and greased 
freed f»o V {he sur f aC es will not com- 



bine - or rubber 



of a 
boots, 



cover, waterproof 
etc., take a mod- 
ted 



coit-W/r ece of india rubber, suited 
erately thick P cut off the ed 

to size ol . _ . _ l om u n :t P moistened in 



to size v. «\ sharp knife moistenec 
° bBqUfi LTtb defective places as well 
c of rubber with oil of 



water, 



giStS c ° ated pa ^ ts together 



•nfafect 'them for 24 hours to a 
an d surjjtti _ mended por- 

^° de w 1 be just as waterproof as, the 
T.I one Rubber cushions or articles 
Itairdng air are repaired in a very 

fmple manner, after being cleaned as 
Siid. Then take colophony, dis- 

olve it in alcohol (90 per cent) so that 
a thick paste forms, smear up the holes, 
allow all to harden well, and the rubber 
article, pillow, ball, knee caps, etc., may 
be used again. 

Softening Rubber —The hardening of 
gum articles is generally referable to 
these having been kept for a long time in 
some warm, dry place, though keeping them 
in the cold will produce the same effect. 
Hardness and brittleness, under any rea- 
sonable care and conditions, are usually 
signs of an inferior article of goods. Ar- 
ticles of Para rubber, of good workmanship, 
usually maintain their elasticity for a very 
long time. Before attempting to soften 
hollow rubber ware, such as flasks, water 
bags, or bottles, etc., they should be well 
scrubbed with a wire brush (bottle 
cleaner) and warm water, so as to re- 
move all dirt and dust. This scrubbing 
should be continued until the wash water 
comes, away clean and bright. For 
softening, the best agent is dilute water 
of ammonia, prepared by mixing phar- 
^acopoeial ammonia water, 1 part, and 
water, 2 parts. There should be enough 
of this to cover the articles, inside and 
nt'i v t ^ em rem ain in the mixture 
nntu the ammonia has evaporated 
warm water works better than 
, roni 1 to 2 hours will be Ion 

rt V sllal tllin g- Thick ana massive 
"Ucles such ag f rubbeJ . tubing) re _ 

loii T ° re ener g e tie treatment, and the 
twI n 7u recoramends f°r the treatment of 
th se ^at they be filled nearly full with 



cold, 
enough, 



en<k aniln i 0tlia mix ture, corke"d at both 
vessel f colle d.up in a kettle, or other 
TJonr/rl 1 sun ^" en t size, warm water 
pWl m ^^^nt to cover the coil com- 

Wra a Tk llglltl y boiled for from 1 to 2 
■ lne water lost evaporation 



should be replaced from time to time, 
and the vessel should never be allowed 
to boil violently. When the proper time 
has arrived (and this must be learned, it 
appears, by experience, as the article 
quoted gives no directions save those 
translated), remove from the fire, and al- 
low to cool gradually. 

Glycerine has been also recommended, 
and it may be used with advantage in 
certain cases. The articles must first 
be cleaned with the brush and warm 
water, as above detailed. Heat them in 
water and rub them with a wad of cot- 
ton soaked in glycerine, drawing the wad 
over them, backwards and forwards. 
This wad should be wrapped with good 
stout wire, the ends of which are pro- 
longed, to serve as a handle. Where 
possible the articles should be stricken 
with the glycerine inside and out, the 
article being, naturally, held out of the 
boiling water, sufficiently, at least, to 
make bare the part being rubbed at the 
time. Let rest for 24 hours, and repeat 
this process. With goods kept in stock, 
that show a tendency to grow brittle, 
this treatment should be repeated every 
6 months or oftener. Never put away 
tubing, etc., treated in this manner until 
every particle of moisture has drained off 
or evaporated. 

Another authority, Zeigler, has the 
following on this subject: Tubing, 
bands, and other articles of vulcanized 
caoutchouc that have become brittle and 
useless, may be restored to usefulness, 
indeed, to their pristine elasticity, by 
treating them as follows: First, put them 
in a hot aqueous solution of tannic acid 
and tartar emetic. Next, transfer them 
to a cold aqueous solution of tannic acid 
and calcium sulphate. Mix the two [ so- 
lutions and heat to about the boiling 
point, and transfer the articles to the hot 
Son. This treatment should bemain- 
ained from 1 day to 3 or 4, according to 
tho nature and condition of the articles. 

TS rStoi rubber stoppers that have 
become too hard for usefulness digest 
them in 5 per cent soda lye for about 10 

become quite boi a« remove the 

next rinsed in warm water t ^ ^ 

rrit^uldVdone with a knife 
moistened with soap spirit. 

Treatment and ^^^SSSJ 
Scraps.— The scraps, assorted accoru g 



RUBBER— RUM, BAY 



koilinff to remove the adhering dirt, 
Sffind adhering acids, salts etc., as we 1 
^eliminate the ree sulphur Next, 



as 

the waste is 



eround between rollers and 

Educed to powder in emery grinders 
reduced to ^ 

the material obtained may be added at 
dry to the mixture, but generally it 
f receives a chemical treatment. 
T h s is carried out by boiling in caustic 
soda solution, or sulphuric or hydro- 
chloric acid respectively, and steaming 
for about 20 hours with 4 atmospheres 

Pr Srding to another method the 
pound Scraps arc steamed with soda lye 
Eider pressure, washed twice thoroughly 
for the elimination of the lye and dried 
in the vacuum. Subsequently mix be- 
tween cold rollers with 5 to 10 per cent of 
benzol or mineral oil and steam for some 
hours under hydraulic pressure at 4 
atmospheres. The product thus ob- 
tained is rolled in plates and added to 
the mixture. The finely ground dry 
waste must not be stored for a long time 
in large quantities, as it hardens very 
easilv and takes fire. 

Ofd articles of vulcarized rubber are 
first "devulcanized" by grinding, boiling 
with, caustic soda, and washing thor- 
oughly. After drying, the scraps > are 
heated to 302° F."with linseed od in a 
kettle provided with stirring mechanism 
which is kept in continual motion. 
When' the rubber has dissolved, a quan- 
tity of natural or coal-tar asphalt is added, 
and as soon as the contents of the kettle 
have become well mixed, the tempera- 
ture is raised so high that dense fumes 
begin to rise and air is forced through 
the mass until a cooled sample shows 
the desired consistence. This compo- 
sition being very tough and flexible, 
forms an excellent covering for electric 
cables. It finds many other uses, the 
proportions of rubber, asphalt, and oil 
being varied in accordance with the 
purpose for which it is designed. 

Vulcanization. — Resides the Good- 
year, Mason, and other patented proc- 
esses the process now usually followed 
m vulcanizing rubber stamps and simi- 
ar small objects of rubber, is as fol- 
lows: 

Sulphur chloride is dissolved in car- 
bon disuiphide in various proportions, 
according to the degree of harefness the 
vulcamzed object is to receive; the rub- 
lefr "PlunBed in the solution and 
removing, lt 18 p l aced La a box Qr 



or about 90 to 100 seconds It V tV n 
washed in a weakly alkaline bath 0 f 
water, and dried. 

Another method (recommended } lv 
Gerard) depends upon letting the rubber 
lie in a solution of potassium ter or penta 
sulphide, of 25° Be., heated to about 
280° F. for 3 hours. 

Testing Rubber Gloves.— In testing 
rubber gloves it is best to inflate them 
with air, and then put them under water 
Thus one may discover many small holes 
in new ones which otherwise would havr 
been impossible to find. 

Dissolving Old Rubber.— The material 
is shredded finely and then heated, under 
pressure, for several hours, with a strong 
solution of caustic soda. All cloth, paint, 
glue, fillers, etc., in the rubber are disin- 
tegrated, but the rubber is not affected. 
The mass is then washed repeatedly -with 
water, to remove all alkali, and the re- 
sultant pure rubber may then be formed 
into sheets. 

Rubber Stamps, — Set up the desired 
name and address in common type, oil 
the type and place a guard about h inch 
high " around the form. JVIix plaster of 
Paris to the proper consistence, pour in 
and allow it to set. Have the vulcanized 
rubber all ready, as made in long strips 
3 inches wide and & of an inch thick, cut 
off the size of the intended stamp, remove 
the plaster cast from the type, and place 
both the cast and the rubber in a screw 
press, applying sufficient heat to thor- 
oughly soften the rubber. Then turn 
down the screw hard and let it remaiL 
until the rubber receives the exact im- 
pression of the cast and becomes coia. 
when it is removed, neatly trimmed WW 
a sharp knife, and cemented to the Han- 
dle ready for use. 

RUBBER CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 
RUBBER GLOVES, SUBSTITUTE FOR: 

See Antiseptics. - 
RUBBER, ITS PROPERTIES i AH 
USES IN WATERPROOFIA 

See Waterproofing. 

RUBBER VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 

RUBY SETTINGS : . 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 

RUOLTZ METAL: 

See Alloys. 

RUM, BAY: 
See Bay Rum. 



KUST PREVENTIVES 



6S3 



Rust Preventives 

,c ,iso Enamels, Glazes, Paints, 
fSh£ Waterproofing.) 

•l „p flip numerous endeavors to 

* n TSeUl objects from oxidation, a 
protect J ta process has not 

»«rt %uni and we still have to re- 
^ b t o e coath gs and embrocations. 
S °n covering the metals with a pale, 

By , linseed-oil varnish, a fat or 
C °!ff c er an unfailing protection 
*3ri oTdation is obtained. This 
Sea, though frequently employed 



: nst Oxidation is obtained. This 
ag 'Vu 1 though freq- 
f eth "er L to! laborious and expensive 
h0W S of general use, and instead we 
to admit ot gene ■ ordinary or 

S^ y co^/ g U especially 
ffir scythes, straw-knives and many 
other bright iron goods These greases 
f r e not suited to retard oxidation, for 
Key are without exception acid-reactmg 
bodies, which absorb oxygen m the air 
and under the action of light, thus rather 
fisting oxidation than retarding it. A 
covering of wax dissolved m oil of tur- 
pentine would be more recommendabie, 
because wax is an impervious body, and 
a firm and rather hard layer remains 
after evaporation of the oil of turpen- 
tine, which excludes the air. If the 
treatment with the wax salve is carefully 
attended to no other objection can be 
urged against this preserving agent than 
that it is likewise comparatively ex- 
pensive if used in large quantities. As 
regards the greases, and treatment with 
petroleum or vaseline, the easy attrition of 
these substances is another drawback, 
which makes a lasting protection impos- 
sible. 

> According to Shedlok, cast-iron ar- 
ticles are treated with acids, then ex- 
posed to the action of steam, hot or cold 
water, and dried. The receptacle is ex- 
hausted of air and a solution of pitch, 
rosin, rubber, or caoutchouc, applied 
under pressure. Objects prepared in 
this manner are said to be impervious 
even to weak acids. 

The inoxidizing process of Ward is 
founded on the simultaneous employ- 
, ?^nt of silicates and heat. The cast 
iron or wrought iron are coated with a 
siliceous mass by means of a brush or 
a?" ^ m , ersio11 - Tll i s covering dries 
Sickly, becomes liquid when the articles 
e *P osed ^ a suitable heat, and soaks 
nio the pores of the metal, forming a 
cm ? nd un iform coat of dull black 
, °r after cooling, which is not changed 
moS e " COntinued influence of the at- 
s paere, and which neither scales nor 



peels from the object. By the admixture 
of glass coloring matters to the siliceous 
mass, decorated surfaces may be pro- 
duced. 

Another inoxidationprocess for cast 
iron is the following: The cast-iron ob- 
jects, such as whole gas chandeliers, 
water pipes, ornaments, balcony railings, 
cooking vessels, etc., are laid upon an 
iron sliding carriage 3.5 meters long and 
are exposed in a flame furnace of special 
construction first 15 minutes to the in- 
fluence of gas generators with oxidizing 
action, then 20 minutes to such with re- 
ducing action. _ After being drawn out and 
cooled off the inoxidized pieces take on a 
uniform slate-blue shade of color, but 
can be enameled and ornamented in any 
manner desired. In applying the enamel 
the corroding with acid is obviated, for 
which reason the enamel stands ex- 
ceedingly well. . 

A bronze-colored oxide coating which 
withstands outward influences fairly 
well, is produced as follows: The bright- 
ly polished and degreased objects are ex- 
posed from 2 to 5 minutes to the vapory 
of a heated mixture of concentrated 
hydrochloric acid and nitric acid (1:1) 
until the bronze color becomes visible 
on the articles. After these have been 
rubbed well with vaseline, heat once 
more until the vaseline commences to 
decompose. After cooling, the object 
smeared well with vaseline. If va ? or 
of a mixture of concentrated hydrochlo- 
ric acid and nitric acid are allowed to 
act on the iron object light reddish 
brown shades are obtained, but >f acetic 
acid is added to the above named tw 
acids oxide coatings of a bronze-yello 
color* can be obtained by the means o 
the vapors. By the use of di fferent mix 
tures of acids any number ot dittere 
colorings can he produced 

"EmaiUe de *er contre-oxide w W 
m me of an ename which is said to gntoc 

iron pipes ^j^^hu^and thir 
posed as follows. Une n«j " , 
Earts powdered crystal glass, / P . 

«u3bl«. the mass 
are melted togexnci , . , a fine 

is chilled and ? ansf X r inding. The 
powder byCTUsh^^g^^n are 
fron pipes and other objects ^ & 
first cleaned, w the us ^ & 

corroding, dried and men ^ ^ nnV 



— , • +he usual manner 
first cleaned, n the us ^ 

corroding, dried an ^ e " olutio n or any 
very dilute gum a^/X powdered 
other gluing agent and^ the p ^ q{ 

C^Z^^a are heated 




KTJST PREVENTIVES 



L dark redness, at which temperature 
he oxide coating melts a 

heating »"» ° b i££ ^t stSod the test 
^t^riy^med whfdrop off «pcd 
S afteM "short time, thus opening the 
wa y for rust after all. 



the anti-rust compos 



ition called rub 



ding 
e 



ber oil is prepared as follows accormn; 



3 brown oil peat and other earthy sub- 
rtSST are objected to a further ■ dun 
Sktion Thinly rolled India rubber 
cut i narrow strips, is saturated with 
f C our times the bulk of the , oil and left 
alone for a week or so. The mass tims 
composed is then subjected to the action 
of mineral sperm oil or a snmlar sub- 
stance, until an entirely uniform clear 
substance has formed. This substance, 
which is applied on the metallic surfaces 
in as thin a layer as possible, forms a 
sort of film after slowly drying, which is 
perfectly proof against atmospheric in- 
fluences. . . 

The rust-preventive composition 01 
Jones & Co., Sheffield, is a composition 
of wax, fat, turpentine, and small quan- 
tities of iron oxide. 

According to a process patented by A. 
Buchner in Germany, the iron objects 
are first painted with a mixture of an 
alkaline glue solution and rosin soap. 
The alkaline mass enters all the pores 
and fissures and prevents the rust from 
extending under the coating. After the 
first coat is dry a second one is applied 
of the following composition: Five parts 
linseed oil boiled with peroxide of man- 
ganese; 2.25 parts turpentine; 0.25 parts 
benzol; 20 parts zinc dust, carbonate of 
calcium, lead oxide, or peroxide of 
manganese. The mixing of the liquid 
with the powders must be done im- 
mediately before use, as the mass solidi- 
ties after 10 hours, and is then no longer 
of working consistency. The second 
coating, which should only be thin 
Hardens quickly. The paint is wcather- 
f > d °es not peel off or blister, and 
adheres so firmly that it can only be re- 
moved with mechanical means. 

A patented process to prevent rusting 
of wrought or cast iron consists in ap- 
plying .with a brush a strong solution of 



potassium dich 
stovi 
ordi 



romate and drying in a 

stove or over an open fire. Drying at 



To a iS./ ?m -? er t. at Y re is not sufficient, 
the Ion am lf the h ? at " stron * enough 
° ^ng as this takes up any color the 



heat must be increased. When t 
proper degree of heat 13 reached a ft e 
deep black layer results, which k * 
acted upon by water, and protect ^ 
surface from the action of the atmosBh 

A permanent lustrous rust preve^T 
is secured as follows: The well-cW 
iron parts are suspended for a f 
minutes in a blue vitriol solution, sot?, 
a delicate skin of copper forms on ?K 
surface; if the pieces rinsed off vJf 
■water are then moved about for a few 
minutes in a solution of sodium hy^o 
sulphite faintly acidulated with hydro 
chloric acid, they assume a blue-black 
coating of copper sulphide, which i 3 
equally permanent in air and in Water 
The black surface may be immediately 
rinsed with water, dried with a rag or 
blotting paper, and polished at once. It 
possesses a steel-blue luster, adheres -well 
to the iron, will stand treatment with the 
scratch brush, and protects against rust 
in a most satisfactory manner. 

Black Sheet Rust Preventive.— Before 
black plate is ready to receive a rust pro- 
tective coating, it is necessary to render 
the surface free from grease and scales, 
for which purpose the sheet iron is placed 
for some time into a warmed solution oE 
10 parts of sulphuric acid in 100 parts 
of water, whereby the impurities become 
detached, a process which may be as- 
sisted and accelerated by scouting with 
sand. Then rinse in clean water and 
rub dry in sawdust. The sheets thus 
prepared are placed for a short while 
into a feeble solution of blue vitriol, 
where they assume a reddish coloring. 
Next, they are rinsed in water, and alter 
that moved to and fro, for a short tune, 
in a feeble solution of hyposulplu k ■ « 
soda acidulated with a little hydrochloric 
acid. The result is a dark-blue coaug, 
on the sheets, which prevents au o» 
tion. In 
To Keep Machinery Bright. -J. jj^ 
order to keep machinery from (- •. 
take 1 ounce of camphor, disson 
1 pound of melted lard; take w ^ 
scum, and mix as much fine ^ « t j, € 
;olor. t - ie ' 



as will give it iron comr. ~v. ^j- 
machinery and smear it witn 
ture. After 24 hours, rub eiea . {of 
soft Hnen cloth. It will keep J"*^ 
months under ordinary circuc 
II.— Mastic, transparent arts 



grains . 



Camphor k S^tt 

bandarac r ' ar ts 

Gum elemi ..r, % u fijei« 

Alcohol, wood, quantity * 
to dissolve. 



art*' 



nt 



RUST PREVENTIVES 



Mix and fO V j alter wil] take the lac- 
s° luti r; te r if warmed slightly, but may 
g Ue eisi!y covered in the cold, if neces- 

Sary ' flxide.— A layer of magnetic 

^T.oof preservative from rust, 
oxide is » n , objects are placed in 
? tnace at a temperature Sufficient 

the £ U tnosine steam. Steam super- 
for decomPO^^ . s then . njected for 

hca i m 6 hours. The thickness of 
Kayer of oxide formed varies with the 
\ ?ion of the operation. This process 
fS repl^ ^ ci ^' enameling, and tm- 

Di The deposit, of magnetic oxide may 
als o be obtained by electrolysis. The 
■ Iprt is placed at the anode m a 
SSh of dfstiflea water heated to 176° F. 
The cathode is a copper plate, or the 
vessel itself, if it is of iron or copper. By 
electrolysis a layer of magnetic oxide is 
formed. Other peroxides may be de- 
posited in the same manner. With an 
alkaline solution of liLharge, a very ad- 
herent, brilliant, black deposit of perox- 
ide of lead is secured. Too energetic a 
current must be avoided, as it would 
cause a pulverulent deposit. To obtain 
a good coating it is necessary, after put- 
ting the objects for a moment at the 
positive pole, to place them at the other 
pole until the oxide is completely re- 
duced, and then bring them back to their 
first position. 

Paper as Protection for Iron and Steel. 

—That paraffine paper is a very good 
protector of iron and steel has been 
proven by tests conducted by Louis H. 
Barker for the Pennsylvania Railroad. 
The mode of applying the paraffine 
paper is as follows: After the rust is 
carefully cleaned off by means of stiff 
wire brushes, a tacky paint is applied, 
i he paper is then covered over and 
tightly pressed upon tne painted surface, 
™e joints of the paper slightly lapping. 
As soon as the paper is in place it is ready 
ior the outside coat of paint. Iron and 
at? glrders a "d beams subjected to the 
etioa of smoke and gases may thus be 
ti^ y P rotected fr °m decomposi- 

w ti ~ Rust Pa P er for Needles. —This is 
Ewi c , 0vered with logwood, and pre- 
erlll\ ° m a material to which fine 
wffi if P^^der has been added, and 
It is naa been sized with glue and alum. 
?°ods U U f ° r wra PPl n g around steel 
ProteoH» C \t s sew inf? needles, etc., and 
c «ng them against rust. Accord- 



625 



me to Lake, the paper is treated with 
sulphuric acid, like vegetable parchment, 
the graphite being sprinkled on before 
the paper is put into the water. 

Rust Paper.— Rust paper is produced 
by coating strong packing paper with 
hnseed-oil varnish, size, or any other 
binder, and sprinkling on the powder 
given in previous formula. For use the 
paper must be moistened with petroleum. 

Anti-Rust Pastes. — I. — This prepar- 
ation serves for removing rust already 
present, as well as for preventing same, 
by greasing the article with it: Melt 5 
parts of crude vaseline on the water bath, 
and mix with 5 parts of finely levigated 
powdered pumice stone into a uniform 
mass. To the half-way cooled mass add 
\ part of crude acid oxalate of potassium 
(sorrel salt) in a finely powdered state 
and grind into complete homogeneity. 

II. — Dry tallow, 25 parts; white wax, 
23 parts; olive oil, 22 parts; oil of tur- 
pentine, 25 parts; mineral oil, 10 parts. 
Apply with a brush at the fusing tem- 
perature of the mixture. 

Rust Prevention for Iron Pipes.— The 
pieces of pipe are coated with tar and 
filled with light wood sawdust, which is 
set afire. This method will fully pro- 
tect the iron from rust for an unlimited 
period, rendering a subsequent coat alto- 
gether superfluous. 

Rust Preventive for Tools, etc.— I. — 
To preserve tools, dies, etc., from rust, 
they should be greased well with yellow 
vaseline. To use oil is not advisable, 
since all oils, except the dear ones, which 
are too expensive for this purpose con- 
tain a certain percentage of aeid that has 
an injurious effect upon the steel and 
iron articles. For greasing the cavities 
use a hard brush. 

II —Carefully heat benzine and add 
half 'its weight of white wax, which dis- 
solves completely in this ratio. 1 Ins 
Olution is applied to the took by mean 
r , u rll cVi It is also said to proiet-i 
^ainS; ac/ion of acidiferous fume,.. 
ttt _T„ke a pound of vaseline and 

l ^t^ra B pfeyloTo r ?afe»<l,oP : o, 
■i wJnterercen, cinnamon, or sassa 

a .S n Ho Can KecP a rag salted with the 
^Wive^ wipe tools that are liable to 

rU To Separate Rusty Pieces.-By boiling 
the ob1e P cS t petroleum, success is cer- 



oxidant. , 
To Protect Zinc Roofing from Rust 

Clean the plates by 



RUST PREVENTIVES— SALTS 



tected 



simple .pr°«^ ^VtowS'iS "6 per 
imnersing them >n jate d _ 

the plates, and the latter 
upright position to dry. 

^fSlf^P—andMeth- 
ods. 

SACCHARINE IN FOOD: 
See Food. 

ADDLE GALLS: 
See Veterinary Formulas. 

ADDLE SOAP: 

See Soap. 
S ALAMAND RIN E DESSERT: 

See Pyrotechnics. 

SALICYL (SWEET): 
See Dentifrices. 

LICYLIC ACID IN FOOD: 
See Foods. 

.LICYLIC SOAP: 

See Soap. 

Salts, Effervescent 

Granulated effervescent salts are pro- 
duced by_ heating mixtures of powdered 
itric acid, tartaric acid, sodium bi- 
carbonate, and sugar to a certain temper- 
ature, until they assume the consistency 
of a paste, which is then granulated and 
dried. 

If effervescent caffeine citrate, anti- 
pynn, lithium citrate, etc., are to be pre- 
pared the powder need not be dried bc- 
tore effecting the mixture, but if sodiun 
phosphate, sod 



mixture, but if sodium 
.-~m si ' 

lum sulphate are to be granulated! 

c obtained. Sodium 



mm sulphate, or magnes 
i to b- 

™ v 'i 0 ™ l '2ation musx nrst in- re 

SK^J^g., otherwise a hard, in- 
ly non-granulable 
*T """""ed. Sodium phos- 
Fn ri^ USt T 60 per cent of its weight 
and I l lg ' S - dlUm fulphate 56 per cent, 
N^fif S1Um su, P h ^ 23 per cent, 
scant ,1* T- ater and carbonic acid 
scape on Wting, and the loss will in- 



crease with the rise of temper atur 
the production of the granulation 
must not exceed 158° F., and f ot 
the grains a temperature of l^o 
sufficient. 1 « 

The fineness of the mesh should Va 
according, to the necessary admixture n y f 
sugar and the size ot the grains. 1 

If the ingredients should have 
tendency to cling to the warm bottom 
an effort should be made immediately 
upon the commencement of the reaction 
to cause a new portion of the surface to 
come in contact with the hot walls. 

When the mass is of the consistency 
of paste it is pressed through a wire sieve 
paper or a fabric being placed under- 
neath. Afterwards dry at sufficient heat 
For wholesale manufacture, surfaces oj 
large size are employed, which are heated 
by steam. 

In the production of substances con- 
taining alkaloids, antipyrin, etc., caie 
must be taken that they do not become 
colored. It is well, therefore, not to use 
heat, but to allow the mixture to stand in 
a moist condition for 12 hours, adding 
the medicinal substances afterwards and 
kneading the whole in a clay receptacle. 
After another 12 hours the mass will 
have become sufficiently paste-like, so 
that it can be granulated as above 

According to another much employed 
method, the mass is crushed with alcohol 
then rubbed through a sieve, and dried 
rapidly. This process is somewhat 
dearer, owing to tne great loss of alcohol 
but presents the advantage ot furnishing 
a better product than any other recipe. 

Effervescent magnesium citrate cau 
not be very well made; for this rea on 
the sulphate was used in lieu oi i 
citrate. A part of the curtoiuiy* 
mixture of sulphate is replaced by 
and aromatized with lemon 
substances. 

An excellent granulation 
tained from the following 
addition of alcohol: 



mass is 
mixture by 



Sodium bicarbonate.. . 
Tartaric acid ig 

rMi—l ■ ) 



Parts by 
weig^ 

so 

15 



Citric acid. 

Sugar - • 

The total loss of this mass 



SO 



The total loss of this JJ^JtotfP* 
granulation amounts to Irom 
cent. . , substa!^ 

To this mass, medicinal su j^ti* 

such as antipyrin, caff elM f r ^ h 
citrate, lithium salicylate, p£ p5 
piperacin, ferric carbonate, 
may be added, as desired. 



I 



SALTS 



627 



' to produce a quinine prepara- 

Ifl . tincture of quinine instead of 
^iT for moistening; the quinine 
alcohol tor e p are d with alcohol of 96 
tincture « f r 
per cent. 

Basis for Effervescent Salts.— 

n„Ji„ m bicarbonate, 
S °dSand powdered 53 parts 
Tartaric acid dried 

and powdered.. . .. 28 parts 
Citric acid unefflor- 

„^prl nrvstals 18 parts 



esced crystt 
Powder the citric acid and add the 
tartaric acid an 



d sodium bicarbonate. 



ThJbwis may be mixed with wy o 
the medicaments commonly used m the 
form of granular effervescent salts, m 
he proportion which will properly rep- 
resent their doses and such substances 
as sodium phosphate, magnesium sul- 
nhate citrated caffeine, potassium bro- 
Lde lithium citrate, potassium citrate, 
an d others, will produce satisfactory 
products. A typical formula for effer- 
vescent sodium phosphate would be as fol- 
lows: 

Sodium phosphate, 
uneffloresced crys- 
tals. 500 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate, 
dried and pow- 
dered . 477 parts 

Tartaric acid, dried 

and powdered. . . . 252 parts 

Citric acid, unefflor- 
esced crystals 162 parts 

Dry the sodium phosphate on a water 
hath until it ceases to lose weight; after 
powdering the dried salt, mix it intimate- 
ly with the citric acid and tartaric acid, 
then thoroughly incorporate the sodium 
bicarbonate. The mixed powders are 
now ready for granulation. The change 
m manipulation which is suggested to 
replace that usually followed, requires 
either a gas stove or a blue-flame coal-oil 
stove, and one of the small tin or sheet- 
iron ovens which are so largely used with 
jnese stoves. The stove itself will be 
loiind m almost every drug store; the 
°ven coats from $1 to $2. 
fth ° Ven is neated to about 200° F. 
first k 6 ° f a thermometer is desirable at 
re^ii'l t u ne wiU q uickl y learn how to 
tem the flame to produce the desired 
BowT r ature )> and the previously mixed 
kal?^w are , placed on > preferably, a 
the nv P \ whlch has been heated with 
tim P a* about h pound being taken at a 
r*4' pendent upon the size of the 
sed f l door of the oven is now 
^ mr about one minute, and, when 



opened, the whole mass will be found to 
be uniformly moist and ready to pass 
through a suitable sieve, the best kind 
and size being a tinned iron, No. 6 
This moist, granular powder may then 
be placed upon the top of the oven, where 
the heat is quite sufficient to thoroughly 
dry the granules, and the operator may 
proceed immediately with the next lot of 
mixed powder, easily granulating 10 or 
more pounds within an hour. 

Sugar has often been proposed as an 
addition to these salts, but experience 
has shown that the slight improvement 
in taste, which is sometimes questioned, 
does not offset the likelihood of darken- 
ing, which is apt to occur when the salt is 
being heated, or the change in color after 
it has been made several months. It 
should be remembered that in making 
a granular effervescent salt by the method 
which depends upon the liberation of 
water of crystallization, a loss in weight, 
amounting to about 10 per cent, will be 
experienced. This is due, in part, to 
the loss of water which is driven off, and 
also to a trifling loss of carbon dioxide 
when the powder is moistened. 

EFFERVESCENT POWDERS: 
Magnesian Lemonade Powder. — 

Fine white sugar 2 pounds 

Magnesium carbonate 6 ounces 

Citric acid 4 ounces 

Essence of lemon .... 2 drachms 
Rub the essence into the dry ingre- 
dients, work well together, sift, and bot- 
tle. 

Magnesian Orgeat Powder.— 

Fine sugar 1 pound 

Carbonate of magne- 
sia . 3 ounces 

Citric acid 1 °* nce 

Oil of bitter almonds . _ 3 drops 
Vanilla flavoring, quantity sufficient. 
Thoroughly amalgamate the dry in- 
gredients. Rub in the oil q f almonds 
and sufficient essence ^ van la to gve 
a slight flavor. Work all well together, 
sift, and bottle. 

Raspberryade Powder.— 

Fine sugar. ...... | P£j£ 

Carbonate of soda.... | onncej 

Tartaric acid .. • * U-o-lnns 

Essence of raspberry ._4drachn|_ 



Carmine 
cient 



coloring, quantity si 



and mix ims ffl • + i; au d carmine 
Then work m s " ffic n X r ^ qU si ? t through 
to make the powder -pale ^ght bottl&. 
a fine sieve, and pack in air ug 



6S8 



SALTS— SAND 



Atresia Powder.- ^ 

Fme sugar. . . , 0 i chma 

Carbonate of soda..., 18 dracl^ 

iScTof ambrosia:: M drop. 

Amalgamate the whole of the -hove, 
and afterwards sift and bottle in me us 
manner. 

Noveau Powder.— 

2 pounds 
Fine sugar. . . - . ■ Iraehms 

Essence of Noyeau... 6 drops 
After the dry ingredients have been 
mixed! and the essence rubbed into them, 
sift and bottle the powder. 
Lemon Sherbet.— 

Fine sugar J P°™£s 

Tartaric acid 40 ounces 

Carbonate of soda. . . 36 ounces 

Oil of lemon 2 drachms 

Having thoroughly mixed the dry in- 
gredients, add the lemon, rubbing it well 
in between the hands; then sift the whole 
thrice through a fine sieve, and cork 
down tight. t . 

As oil of lemon is used m this recipe, 
the blending must be quite perfect, other- 
wise when the powder is put in water the 
oil of lemon will float. 

Any other flavoring may be substi- 
tuted for lemon, and the sherbet named 
accordingly. 

Cream Soda Powder. — 

Fine sugar 30 parts 

Tartaric acid 7 parts 

Carbonate of soda. ... 6 parts 
Finely powdered gum 

arable 1 part 

Vanilla flavoring, quantity suffi- 
cient. 

Proceed exactly as for lemon sherbet. 
Kissingen Salt, — 

Potassium chloride. . 17 parts 
Sodium chloride . . . . 367 parts 
Magnesium sulphate 

(dry) 59 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate. 107 parts 
For the preparation of Kissingen 
water, dissolve 1.5 grams in 180 grams of 
water. 

Vichy Salt.^ 

Sodium bicarbonate. 
Potassium carbonate 



Magnesium sulphate 
(dry) 



846 parts 
38 parts 



S8 parts 
77 parts 

h9r . • ^ kin & Vich y water dissolve 1 
part in 200 parts of water. 



Sodium chloride 
For 



1 



una at various times been known - 
Beidlitz salt, Egra salt, canal salt, bitfi 
salt, cathartic salt, English salt, 



Seidlitz Salt.— This is one of the 
old names for magnesium sulphate, fl 

s 

salt, Bai"ft«™ — -e^ii salt, and 

Epsom salt. Its earliest source was f r0 a 
the salt springs of Epsom in England 
and from this fact it took its last W 
names. For a long time sca-salt makers 
supplied the markets of the world 
They procured it as a by product hi 
the making of salt. The bitter water 
that remained after the table salt had 
been crystallized out was found to con- 
tain it. Now it is chiefly procured f tom 
such minerals as dolomite, siliceoua 
magnesium hydrate, and schistose rock 
containing the sulphide of magnesia. 
Many medical men deem it our best 
saline cathartic. 

SALTS, SMELLING. 

I. — Moisten coarsely powdered am- 
monium carbonate with a mixture of 

Strong tincture of or- 
ris root 2| ounces 

Extract of violet 3 drachms 

Spirit of ammonia. .. . 1 drachm 

II. — Fill suitable bottles with coarsely 
powdered ammonium carbonate, and 
add to the salt as much of the following 
solution as it will absorb: 

Oil of orris 5 minims 

Oil of lavender flow- > _ 
crs 10 muums 

Extract of Violet 30 minims 

Stronger water of am- 
monia jounces 

SALVES: 

See Ointments. 

SAND : 

Colored Sand.— Sift fine white sand 
from the coarser particles and color n 
follows: j 
I. — Blue. — Boil 106 parts o ^ 
and 4 of Berlin blue with a small quai 
constantly, and 

soon as the sand is thoroughly c0]OJ fine 

veTy d^t 



of water, stirring constantly, anu 
)on as the sand is thorough " 
II.— Black Sand.— Heat 
quartz sand, previously freed no. of 
by sifting, and add to every i R c t he 
it 6 to S spoonfuls of fat. ContgJ, • 
heating as long as smoke or a , 

stirring-, j,l a cK 

5oil * h 5 



tontine # 
" Die p 

observed on 
finally washed and dried, 
sand will not rub off. 

ai.— Bark-Brown San^^j ^ d 



sand in a decoction of 

by mixing 100 parts of white sal 1 
4 parts of vermilion. 



dry it over a fire. . ufain^ 

IV.— Rose -colored sandjs o ^ ^ 



SAND— SCREWS 



629 



end— Lawn sand maybe pre- 
j^Wft ba ; ' nff crude ammonium sul- 
P* red S Sri %ith sand, 35 parts. 
W te ' ■ +S« will kill daisies and plan- 
this B11 * tU ,;Lc not permanently injure 
■ ■-" but does not y effectiye 



tain 3 



G £ lawns. 



the grass plantains is to put, 

ffleth0d ^v weaK, P a full teaspoonful of 
d :SonVt in the bead of each. 

SAKD HOLES IN BRASS: 
See Castings. 

SAND SOAP: 

g ee Soap. 
SANDSTONE CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives. 
SANDSTONE COATING: 

See Acid-Proofing- 
SANDSTONES, TO REMOVE OIL 
SPOTS FROM: . 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

SAND TO PREVENT ADHESION OF 
SAND TO CASTINGS: 

See Castings. 
SARSAPARILLA. 

Each fluidounce of Ayer's sarsaparilla 
represents 

Sarsaparilla root 10 parts 

Yellow dock root 8 parts 

Licorice root 8 parts 

Buckthorn bark 4 parts 

Burdock root 3 parts 

Senna leaves 2 parts 

Black cohosh root.. . . 2 parts 

Stillingia root 4 parts 

Poke root 1 part 

Cinchona red bark. . . 2 parts 
Potassium iodide. ... 4 parts 
Solvent. — Alcohol, 10* minims to each 
™^ m; glycerin, syrup, water, 
inis is the formula as given by T)r. 
Charles H. Stowell, of the Ayer Com- 
ply, to the daily papers, for advertising 
Ptoses. 

Sarsaparilla Flavoring.— 

Oil wintergreen 6 parts 

sassafras % parts 

XH c . ass ^ H parts 

9S clo .ve 1* parts 

VlA ni f e U parts 

Alcoho1 60 parts 

Sarsaparilla Syrup.— 

Simple syrup 40 ounces 



^apariUa'flavorin" e 

sa* mel t0 color - 

I^RILLA EXTRACT: 
Essences and Extracts. 



1 drachm 



SALT, USES FOR: 

Brass can be readily cleaned with a 
solution of salt and vinegar. A saturated 
solution of salt in water when washing 
clothes will prevent colors from running. 
Salt should be added to water before spa- 
ghetti, potatoes or vegetables are boiled 
in it. A speck of salt added to cream 
helps in whipping. An excellent throat 
gargle, which is highly recommended by 
physicians, is salt water. To keep clothes 
from freezing on the line add salt to the 
rinsing water. Salt eaten with nuts aids 
digestion. Egg stains on silver can easily 
be removed with the use of salt. Carpets 
can be cleaned easily and will look bright- 
er if salt is sprinkled on them. Rust 
stains can be removed by rubbing salt 
and lemon on them and then drying in 
the sun. 

Saving Coal. — 
Permanganate of po- 
tassium 1 pound 

Common salt 20 pounds 

Powdered chlorate of 

potassium 2 pounds 

Powdered burnt um- 
ber 1 pound 

Crush the permanganate small and mix 
with the other ingredients by sieving. 
This quantity is sufficient for one ton of 
cither hard or soft coal. Dissolve in four 
gallons of water, and sprinkle evenly over 
the coal. For a hod of coal use one tea- 
spoonful. 

SCISSORS HARDENING: 
See Steel. 

SCOURING LIQUIDS: # 

See Laundry Preparations. 

SCRATCH BRUSHING: 

See Plating, under Gilding. 

SCREWS: . 
To Prevent Screws from Rusting, and 
To rrevenx ■ sometimes 
Becoming Fast.-Screws w 

rust in their seat i, e>e 

oiled before dnvl n n S \ ne d m ith a mixture 

but if they « e ,^ n 2llow they will re- 

° £ ^S^eWu^Xed /or years 
mam unrusteci anu u re moved 

A screw rusted ^ £ f a re d-hot 

by placing the fiat ertrem»a m i n utes. 
rod of iron on it for » ° r f Ubefoun d 
When the screw is heated, it WW 
to turn quite easily. 
SCREWS, BLUEING: 
See Steel. 



SEA SICKNESS SHELL 



CAMEOS 



630 

SEALING (BURNING) TRICK: 

See Pyrotechnics. 

SEALING WAX: 
g ee Waxes. 

,c n f notassium bromide ais. 



even- 
ore re- 



3 grams of P°t assl ^ w. er every 

8* elt ?or r s W ever: weeks before going on 
tiring for several we voyag e, breath- 

SnStbeX and a tfgfft bandage 
Zuld be worn around the abdomen. 

II._Menthol al P art 

Cocaine hydro- 

Al ?S de ;;:: :::::: 6o.o5«ts 

Syrup V. 30.0 parts 

A dessertspoonful to be taken at 
intervals of half an hour. 

SEASONINGS: 

See Condiments. 

SEED j BIRD: 

See Bird Foods. 

SEEDS, TESTS FOR FOREIGN: 
See Foods. 

SEIDLITZ POWDERS: 

See Salts (Effervescent). 

SELTZER WATER: 
See Water. 

SERPENTS, PHARAOH'S. 

An old form consisted of pellets of a 
very poisonous mercu-ial compound which 
gave off dangerous fumes when heated. 
The "eggs" may be made of compara- 
tively safe material by the following 
formula: 

Potassium bichromate. 2 parts 

Potassium nitrate 1 part 

White sugar 2 parts 

Powder each ingredient separately, 

mix, and press into small paper cones. 

Ihese must be kept, from light and 

moisture. 

Of_ course, neither this nor other 
chemical toys containing substances in 
the shghtest degree harmful if swallowed 
i«t ?j ]Aac T ] in the bancls of children 
dan™ T Ugl ? fully t0 understand the 
to^ tningf ng ° r CVen taSting ™~ 
SEWER GAS, HOW TO DETECT. 
TeadiW^ ! us P c . ct se ^er gas but cannot 
some 7 rtt eter ™ ne whether it is that 
some other odor, here 



is a good 



or 
test: 



Soak a piece of white unglazed 
a mixture of 1 oz. of lead acetat^ > 
i/ 3 pt. of rain or distilled water vn. 4 
the paper is thoroughly dry V \L 
the suspicious locality and if sew y* 



js present 
dark. 



the 



in 



paper will shortly \JjJ 



SHARPENING STONES: 
See Whetstones. 

SHAVING PASTE. 

An emulsion of paraffme wax, m e n 



at I3l° F., should be used. "fhlsTf 5 
pared with 25 per cent of wax and g w 
cent of tragacanth, the wax being mdted 
and mixed with the tragacanth previous 
ly made into a mucilage with some oE the 
water. The addition of a little stearine 
or lard renders the emulsificatioiL of the 
wax easier, while about 10 per cent of 
alcohol makes the preparation more 
agreeable to use. The fatty odor of the 
preparation may be covered by the ad- 
dition of £ to l per cent of lavender oil, 
and the finished product then appears as 
a thick white cream. In use a small 
quantity is rubbed over the area to be 
shaved and the razor immediately ap- 
plied. As the water in the emulsion 
evaporates, the particles of was previ- 
ously distributed in the emulsion become 
coherent and fill up the depressions in 
the surface of the skin from which the 
hairs arise, thus forming a mechanical 
support during the passage of the razor. 
The quantity required is very small, 
ounce being sufficient 
face about 6 times. 

SHAVING SOAP: 
See Soap. 

SHEEP -DIPS: 

See Disinfectants. 

SHEEP DISEASES: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 

SHELL CAMEOS. 

If shell cameos a 
come too hot in 



for shaving the 



"d corals J.«£ 
cementing ** d J%# 



have appeared in consequence, 
is applied and allowed to BOW 
heating. The same process is« 
for shell cameos winch bove 
white fissures, owing t° 
smaller. 

SHELL, IMITATION OF: 

See Casein Compounds- 

SHELLS, LUBRICANTS 
DRAWING : 

See Lubricants. 



ploy 




SHELLAC— SHOE DRESSINGS 



631 



SSEtL POLISHES: 

polishes. 

SHELLAC: 

g ee Varnislies. 

ciTFLLAC BLEACHING. 

IvitL an acidified solution of 
contact w sQme time> then 

ch!0 u ld / tneaded in hot water, placed back 
7T h te JSSe of lime solution, and 
into trie thk treatment with 

b rf£ridc rflime solution the bleached 
tlhc metirne, loses its solubdity m 
i fcnl which, however, can be restored 
7 C tt sh ellac s melted in boiling water, 
' S it is moistened with a little ether 
? f well-closed vessel. A quantity of 
2toiTthe proportion of 1 part to 20 
2 shellac is sufficient Great cau- 
5™ is recommended in the handling of 
ether The ether vapors easily ignite 
when' in proximity to a burning light and 
a mixture of ether vapor and atmos- 
pheric air may cause most vehement ex- 
plosions. After an action of the ether 
upon the shellac for several hours, the 
alcohol necessary to dissolve it may either 
be added directly or the shellac mois- 
teaed with ether is placed in the open air 
for half an hour in a dish, after which 
time the ether will have evaporated and 
tie shellac can then be dissolved by the 
use of alcohol. 

Bleached shellac is known to lose its 
solubility in alcohol, especially if treated 
with chlorine in bleaching. This solu- 
bility can be readily restored, however, 
by first mositening the rosin with its 
weight of ether, placing it in a closed 
vessel and allowing it to swell there. 
Shellac thus treated becomes perfectly 
soluble again. 



SHIMS IN ENGINE BRASSES, 

la taking up the wear of engine brasses 
on wrist pin or crosshead pin when the 
«y ig driven clear down, back out the 
key and instead of putting in sheet-iron 
aims, put in a small piece of pine wood 
£ just the right thickness to allow the 
to come even with the under side o£ 
i\ stra P, then pour in melted babbitt, 
of T>! e ^ u st be drilled through the flange 
Wb'tt es to allow for Pouring the 



t 0 er *giueer knows the trouble it is 

t 0s PU 1 ^veral shims between the brass 
if the? • end of tne stra P- especially 
are t* OX 13 a r <>und-end one, as many 
' oy using the method described, 



brasses may be worn up much closer, 
even if worn through; the babbitt will 
form part of the bearing. 

Shoe Dressings 

(See also Leather.) 
Acid-Free Blacking. — 

Lampblack 27-36 parts 

Bone black . 3 parts 

Syrup 60-70 parts 

Put in a kettle and under gentle heat 
stir together until a smooth, homoge- 
neous mass has been attained. In an- 
other kettle put 3 parts of finely shredded 
gutta percha and warm over an open fire 
until it begins to run, then add, with 
constant stirring, 5 parts of olive oil, 
continuing the heat until the gum is 
completely dissolved. When this oc- 
curs dissolve in 1 part of stearine, and 
add the whole while still hot in a slow 
stream, and under diligent and constant 
stirring, to the mixture of syrup and 
blacks. Continue the agitation of the 
mass until it is completely homogeneous. 
Now dissolve 4 parts of Senegal gum in 
12 parts of water, and add the solution to 
the foregoing mass. Stir well in. and 
finally add sufficient mirbane (about 
£ pari) to perfume. 

Blacking Pastes.— While shellac is not 
soluble in water alone, it is soluble in water 
carrying borax, the alkaline carbonates, 
etc. In paste blacking the object of the 
sulphuric acid is to remove from the bone 
black the residual calcium phosphate. 
The ordinary bone black of commerce 
consists of only about 10 per cent of 
carbon, the residue being chiefly calcium 
phosphate. This is the reason that we 
cannot obtain a pure Uack color from it. 
but a dirty brown. To make a good 
Hacking, one that is of a black in color 
either use purified bone black, or a 
Wraracid P (sulphuric or ^rocklori 

Lrmula contains no acid and makes a 
good paste: 

I —Marseilles soap. ... I™ P arts 
Potassium car- ^ 
bonate 500 parts 

M ix 

stirring until a """jj a utile at a 
S£ an",' coStanVstirrine. the 
following: 



em 



SHOE DRESSINGS 



Rock candy, pow- 153 parts 



Stu 



20 parts 
20 parts 



derd 

Gum arabic, pow- 
i^7uW=k- 1,000 P^ts 
„.. until l.omo^ous, thou pour. 
w , So a til. hot into b*-. 
^Mfc^Sh^/hoes: 
U._Bone black. ... Mparts 

lLK ic . aold ::: » 

Sodium carbonate . 

crystal 18 P arts 

Sugar, common 
brown, or mo- 
lasses 

Liquid glue pre- 
pared as below . 
Water, sufficient. 
Soak 10 parts of good white glue in 
40 parts of cold water for 4 hours, then 
dissolve by the application of gentle 
heat, and add 1.8 parts of glycerine 
(commercial). Set aside. Dissolve the 
sodium carbonate in sufficient water to 
make a cold saturated solution (about 
3 parts of water at 60° P.), and set aside. 
In an earthenware vessel moisten the 
bone black with a very little water, and 
stirring it about with a stick, add the 
sulphuric acid, slowly. Agitate until a 
thick dough-like mass is obtained, then 
add and incorporate the fish oil. Any 
sort of animal oil, or even colza will 
answer, but it is best to avoid high-smell- 
ing oils. Add a little at a time, and 
under vigorous stirring, sufficient of the 
saturated sodium carbonate solution to 
cause effervescence. Be careful not to 
add so freely as to liquefy the mass. Stir 
until effervescence ceases, then add the 
molasses or sugar, the first, if a soft, 
damp paste is desired, and the latter if 
a dryer one is wanted. Finally, add, a 
nttle at a time, and under constant 
stirring, sufficient of the solution of glue 
to make a paste of the desired con- 
sistency. The exact amount of this last 
EKJTk tlat is - necessar y must be 
iSE£w 7 * e *P erien .<*- It is a very 

Zlld l ? d ^ pth . and brilliancy that it 
certain H °fe wis ? have, as well as a 
SSrn^ U ? bll,ty ' in . which most or the 
cient. 



gs now on the market "are~'defi- 



122 parts 



HI. -Soap 

Potassium ca. 

bonate P1 . 
Beeswax. par 9 

Water 500 parts 

2,000 parts 



Mix and boil together until a 
homogeneous paste is obtai^d* 0 ^ 
add u > th^ 

Bone black 1,000 

Powdered sugar ' i to ^ ai ^ s 
Powdered g u m ° 6 Wtii 
arable ^ 

Mix thoroughly, remove from t?* 
and pour while still hot into boxes* ^ 
Eoot-Top Liquid. — 
Solution of muriate of 

French chalk (in pow- 3 drachms 

salt of sorrei.::;;.;; 

Flake white i 0UD( , e 

Burnt alum ^ 0Unce 

Cuttle-fish bones 

(powdered) 1 0unce 

White arsenic ] ounce 

Boiling water 1 quart 

Brown Dressing for Untanned Shoes.- 

Ycllow wax 30 parts 

Soap. 12 parts 

Nankin yellow 15 parts 

Oil of turpentine 100 parts 

Alcohol 12 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Dissol ve in the water bath the wax in 
the oil of turpentine; dissolve, also by 
the aid of heat, the soap in the water, 
and the Nankin yellow (or in place oi 
that any of the yellow coal-tar colors h in 
the alcohol. Mix the solutions wbje 
hot, and stir constantly until cold, iw 
preparation is smeared over the shoes J 
the usual way, rubbed with a brush un 
evenly distributed, and finally potoW 
with an old silk or linen cloth. 

Heel Polish.— 

I.-Carnauba wax...- jj PJJ,; 

Japanese wax ? 

Paraffine n 1 rts 

Oil of turpentine.. 50 

Lampblack £ arts 

Wine black - ^ ^ 

Melt the wax and the pjJ^J »dd 
when this has become „ lu ff/ t be laflf 
the turpentine oil, and imauj y^n f 
black and the wine black- , d» 
black color has become e ^jjw 
tributed, pour, while still 
tin cans. 

II.-Melt together Jap«*j} tfjj 
100 parts; carnauba ™* x ' ix v<it".L. 
paraffine, 100 parts; and m „ |r i fc 
pentine oil, 500 parts, as we w ; ne W 
ation of lampblack, 10 ..P i !5 i ; pa rts- 
20 parts; turpentine oil, < u r 



SHOE DRESSINGS 



638 



HQUID BLACKINGS 

rhe following fo 
product of excellent quality 



following formulas make a 



T vory black ^jFf 

Brown f gar 90 par s 

\Tt^ under constant stirring Let 
& 1 Ak>rU hours, then put into flasks, 
stand iui ~ 
lichtly stoppered. 

n ._I vary black 200 parts 

Molasses 200 parts 

Gallnuts, bruised. 12 parts 

Iron sulphate 12 parts 

Sulphuric acid 40 parts 

Boiling water TOO parts 

Mix the molasses and ivory black in 
an earthen vessel. In an iron vessel let 
the "allnuts infuse in 100 parts of boil- 
in^ water for 1 hour, then strain and set 
aside. In another vessel dissolve the iron 
sulphate; in another, 100 parts of the 
boiling water. One-half of this solution 
is added at once to the molasses mixture. 
To the remaining half add the sulphuric 
acid, and pour the mixture, a little at a 
time, under constant stirring, into the 
earthen vessel containing the molasses 
mixture. The mass will swell up and 
thicken, but as soon as it commences to . 
subside, add the infusion of gallnuts, 
also under vigorous stirring. If a paste 
blacking is desired the preparation is 
now complete. For a liquid black add 
the remaining portion of the boiling 
water (500 parts), stir thoroughly and 
bottle. 

Patent -Leather Polish.— 

Yellow wax or ceresine 3 ounces 

Spermaceti.... 1 ounce 

On of turpentine 11 ounces 

Asphaltum varnish. . . 1 ounce 

£ ora f ■ 80 grains 

Frankfort black 1 ounce 

Prussian blue 150 grains 

flntH, the T x ' add the tor ax, and stir 
anotbt emulsion h as been formed. In 
the 1' P t n melt the spermaceti; add 
turneS," ' P revious dy mixed with the 

iJ? r e3 e oll. aiId add to the wax: 

TfepS ** Shoe Soles—X- 

aa «nK Sk UO u ' destln ed for impreg- 

follows- r • 1 f W solcs > is produced as 

with 1 oaS p i- 5 ^ parts of Unseed oil 

ho ^s to ?K« u ^ ar S e; next heat for 2 

0f zi *c vitrinl point with 4 P art 

Vltnd ' w h lc h is previously cal- 



cined (dehydrated). The composition 
obtained in this manner, when perfectly 

f Z lth 8 parts of benzine 
and filled m bottles or other receptacles 
To render this preservative effective, 
the soles must be coated with it until 
the leather absorbs it. 

_ II.— Dissolve ordinary household soap 
m water; on the other hand, dissolve an 
aluminum salt — the cheapest ia the com- 
mercial aluminum sulphate — in water 
and allow both^ solutions to cool. Now 
pour the aluminum salt solution, with 
constant stirring, into the soap solution, 
thereby obtaining a very 6ne precipitate 
of aluminum oleate. The washed-out 
residue is dried with moderate heat. By 
adding 10 to 30 per cent to petroleum 
with slight heating, a solid petroleum of 
vaseline-like consistency is received, 
which may be still further solidified by 
additional admixture. A 10 per cent 
solution of aluminum oleate in petro- 
leum is a very excellent agent for pre- 
serving the soles, a single saturation of 
the soles sufficing forever. The sole will 
last about 1 year. 

III. — The following mixture is pre- 
pared by melting together over the fire 
in an enameled iron vessel: Vaseline, 
400 parts; ceresine, 100 parts. The 
melted mass, which is used as a grease, 
is filled in wooden boxes or tin cans. 

IY, — The oleic acid of the stCarine 
factories is heated with strong alcohol 
and sulphuric acid. Take 16 parts of 
oleic acid, 3 parts of alcohol (90 per 
cent), and 1 part of concentrated sulphu- 
ric acid. The oleic-acid ether formed 
separates as a thin brownish oil. It is 
liberated from free sulphuric acid and 
the alcohol in excess by agitation wit 
warm water and allowing to settle. Ihi 

oleic-acid ether is ^fZ \ lrT s ol 
weight of fish oil, and 4 to 8 parts of 
nitro-benzol are added per 1,000 parts to 
disguise the odor. 

TAN AND RUSSET SHOE POLISHES: 
To Renovate and Brighten Rnsse 
and Yellow Shoes.-First clean off all 
dirt and dust with a ^° d . f 
then with a sponge dipped m 
over the leather, repeating tne pr 
as soon as the benzine •'•P^dn? 
few wiping* will b "^ h ^ lo wd r efsin 
color Then use a hght-yeiiow u 

of I solution of H'SYJj^eaV 
oil of t"P" t,n ,f; v ^hateve° to compoon 
future SKaracter at l~t 



634 

2S&« Say quote thefollowng: 

menuc , 4 ounces 

X__ Yellow wax 4 drachms 

Pearl ash -. ^ raiC hm 

Yellow soap - mmceS 

Spirit o£ turpentine 7 ounces 

pLsphme(amlme). J |-ms^ 

^at a sufficient quantity. 



SHOE DRESSINGS 



parts 
parts 

parts 



ScraP B the wax ^ *> * 

mov e the heat ^ ad<i }h e^urj ^ 
and the aniline (previously u , 
Se alcohol) thoroughly and add 

sufficient water to Dring u* 
product up to 1 J piuts. 

II.— Water J | 

Rosin oil 

Spirit of sal ammo- 

niac, concentrated 1 B 
White grain soap. . . 1-83 P ar f 
Russian glue....... \M P arts 

Brown rock candy . . 0.5 / parts 

Bismarck brown 0.07 parts 

Boil all the ingredients together ex- 
cepting the pigment; after all has been 
dissolved, add the Bismarck brown and 
filter. The dressing is applied with a 
sponge. 

HI. — Beeswax, yellow 2 ounces 

Linseed oil 3 ounces 

Oil turpentine 10 ounces 

Dissolve by heat of a water bath, and 
add \\ ounces soap shavings, hard yel- 
low. Dissolve this in 14 ounces of hot 
water. 

IV. — A simpler form of liquid mix- 
ture consists of equal parts of yellow wax 
and palm oil dissolved with the aid of 
heat in 3 parts of oil of turpentine. 

V. — Soft or green soap. . . 1 ounce 
Linseed oil, raw .... 2 ounces 
Annatto solution (in 

. oil) 7 ounces 



Yell 



ow wax. 3 ounces 



Gum turpentine. ... 70 
Water 7 0 



ounces 
unces 



Dissolve the soap in the water and add 
e solution of annatto; melt the wax in 
the oil of turpentine, and gradually stir 
m the soap solution, stirring until cold, 
ine paste to accompany the £< 



of wax 

a mix. 



rmCr F • w accompany the foregoing 
mixtures is composed of yellow wal and 
S ^^ned with petrolatum, say 4 

of petroEm 1 ^ ° f ^ and 

Thl aSt J: ? res ! in gs for Russet Shoes.— 
paste dressings used on russet 



leather consist of mixtures 
oil and other vehicles which gi ve wu * 
ture of proper working quality. 
A simple formula is: 

I. — Yellow wax... 9 parts 

Oil of turpentine 20 p arts 

Soap 1 pan 

• Boiling water 20 parts 

Dissolve the wax in the turpentine o 
a water bath and the soap in the Wat " 
and stir the two liquids together until th! 
mixture becomes sufficiently cold to Te 
main homogeneous. 

Another formula in which stearine v» 
used is appended: 

II. — Wax. 1 part 

Stearin e. . . 2 parts 

Linseed oil. 1 part 

Oil of turpentine. ... 6 parts 

Soap 1 part 

Water 10 parts 

Proceed as above. 

Carnauba wax is often used by manu- 
facturers of such dressings instead of 
beeswax, as it is harder and takes a 
higher polish. These dressings are 
sometimes colored with finely ground 
yellow ocher or burnt umber. _ If the 
leather be badly worn, however, it is best 
to apply a stain first, and afterwards the 
waxy dressing. 

Suitable stains are made by boiling 
safflower in water, and annatto is also 
used in the same way, the two being 
sometimes mixed together. Oxalic acid 
darkens the color of the safflower. Ani- 
line colors would also doubtless wM 
good results with less trouble and » 
pense. By adding finely ground Imp 
black to the waxy mixture instead of 
ocher, it would answer as a dressing 
black leather. 

WATERPROOF SHOE DRESSINGS- 

I.-C r ,,,hcue JO Pg 

Petroleum ■ ■ ^ 

Carbon disulphide. 10 P 

fcllac r . { gjg 

Lampblack 1 pal* 

Oil lavender t 

Alcohol 55 p0 ur 

Upon the caoutchouc in a D ^ $ 
the carbon disulphide, cork we ' tc | l0 iic 
stand a few days, or until the : ca ■ d 0 r 
has become thoroughly gfia" t r°* 
partly dissolved. Then . add x e ,t 
leum, oil of lavender, and ait . flt jt«J 
the shellac in fine powder, an° litdf 
about 120° F., taking care that ^ ^ 
possible is lost bv evaporatio ■ j t n 
all ohssolved ^ ^ 



poss 

the substances 



a re 



liquid is tolerably clear, 




SHOE DRESSINGS— SHOW CASES 



635 



black mix thoroughly, and fill at once 

^'Poof blacking which will 
■ H fine polish without rubbing, and 
gl Tfnot inju?e the leather: 

ffl « L,x 18 parts 

Beeswax 

Spermaceti.,- P 

Turpentine oil. ob parts 

ipfalt varnish.... 5 parts 
Powdered borax.... 1 part 

Frankfort black Spars 

Prussian blue A parts 

Nitro-b'enzol 1 part 

Melt the wax, add the powdered bor- 
ax and stir till a kind of jelly has formed 
Tn another pan melt the spermaceti, add 
fhe asphalt varnish, previously mixed 
«£h the oil of turpentine, stir well, and 
3d to the wax. Lastly add the color 
previously rubbed smooth with, a little 
of the mass. The nitro benzol gives fra- 
grance. 

Waterproof Varnish for Beach Shoes.— 

Yellow.— 

Water • - - 150 parts 

Borax 5 parts 

Glycerine S parts 

Spirit of ammonia. . . 1 part 

White shellac 25 parts 

Yellow pigment, water 

soluble 1 part 

Formalin, a few drops. 

Orange. — 

Water 150 parts 

Borax 5 parts 

Glycerine 2 parts 

Spirit of ammonia. . . 1 part 

Ruby shellac 22 parts 

Orange, water solu- 
ble 1 part 

Brown 0.3 parts 

Formalin 0.1 part 

Yale Brown. — 

Water 150 parts 

Borax. 5 parts 

Glycerine 2 parts 

Spirit of ammonia.. . 0.25 parts 

White shellac 25 parts 

Yellow, water solu- 

n ble • 8 

^ange 0.3 

formalin o.l 

Stir the 



parts 
parts 
part 

- — glycerine and the spirit of 

ammonia together in a special vessel be- 
tore nnHir,™ u_ii_ • . .t 1 . 



a£ P V^ ln S b °th mto the kettle. It is 
rZ at T- Sa , ble ' before th e water boils, to 
into a 1 ° f the nearlv boiling water 
coin a a, vessel arid to dissolve the 
thi« . , th * mn with B nod stirring, adding 
has I 1Utl ?. n t0 th ^ kettle after the shell 
uas be en dissolved. 



Ih 



White Shoe Dressing. — 

I. — Cream of tartar 3 ounces 

Oxalic acid 1 ounce 

AJum 1 OU nce 

Mll k 3 pints 

Mix and rub on the shoes. When 
they are thoroughly dry, rub them with a 
mixture of prepared chalk and magne- 
sium carbonate. 

II. — "Water 136 parts 

Fine pipe clay 454 parts 

Shellac, bleached. . 136 parts 
Borax, powdered . . 68 parts 

Soft soap 8 parts 

Ultramarine blue. . 5 parts 
Boil the shellac in the water, adding 
the borax, and keeping up the boiling 
until a perfect solution is obtained, then 
stir in the soap (5 or 6 parts of "ivory*" 
soap, shaved up, and melted with, 2 or 3 
parts of water, is better than commo 
soft soap), pipe clay, and ultramarine. 
Finally strain through a hair-cloth sieve. 
This preparation, it is said, leaves abso 
lutely nothing to be desired. A goo 
deal of stiffness may be imparted to th 
leather by it. The addition of a littl 
glycerine would remedy this. The ol 
application should be wiped away befor 
a new one is put on. This preparation i 
suitable for military shoes, gloves, belts 
and uniforms requiring a white dressing 



SHOES, WATERPROOFING' 

See Waterproofing. 

SHIO LIAO: ^ 

See Adhesives, under Cements. 

SHIP COMPOSITIONS AND PAINTS: 

See Paints. 
SHOW BOTTLES FOR DRUGGISTS: 

See Bottles. 

SHOW CASES. 

Dents in show cases and counters, and 
indeed almost all forms of "bruises on 

shop and other ^^XpatienS 
moved by the exercise of a ^P^f^ 
and proceeding as follows: Sponge U» 
place with water as warm as can be 

e iougirto fold 6 or 8 times and yet covg 
t \e bruise wet in warm w^^Jg 
over the spot. -i » ^ ,v paper 

smoothing iron and hold it on 

SSSfdS not ;ie.d .» t_h. 
peat the process. A (lent as b 



;s6 



dollar ana t j^^Slydose texture 
in Wack walnu "^Sh aad level with 



id i 

at of tc 

If°Ke bllie be small, a sponge dippec 



SICCATIVES 

it is especially sugar of lead 



the center, 



inWar ^. Te, placed U po,y, r ^ew,n S 

Mcfent [r Whe,: the delt is'renjoved 
:„a ^he wood dry, the polish ear, be re- 
and tne wuu j» 11SU al processes. J-t 

the ridges, where the new and old polish 
eometogethcr, disappear; wipe with a 
slightly greased but otherwise clean rag 
ana finish with putz pomade. 

SHOW-CASE SIGHS: 
See Lettering 

SHOW-CASES, 
MING OF: 

See Glass. 



TO PREVENT DIM- { 



Siccatives 



The oldest drier is probably litharge, 
a reddish -yellow powder, consisting of 
lead and oxygen. Formerly it was 
ground finely m oil, either pure or with 
admixture of white vitriol and added to 
the dark oil paints. Litharge and sugar 
of lead are used to-day only rarely as 
drying agents, having been displaced by 
the liquid manganese siccatives, which 
are easy to handle. E. Ebelin, however, 
is of the opinion that the neglect of the 
lead compounds has not been beneficial 
to decorative painting. Where these 
mediums were used in suitable quantities 
hard-drying coatings were almost always 
obtained. Ebelin believes that formerly 
there used to be less lamentation on 
account of tacky floors, pews, etc., than 
at the present time. 

i-x-P 0uf3t ! ess a proposition to grind 
litharge into the oil again will not be 
favorably received, although some old 

£t? e 5 &* ,nters , have by no means dis- 
carded this method. 

Sugar of lead (lead acetate) is likewise 
tt as a drier for oil paint. While we 

act! f f - Ume l ? ge - neral that a siccative 
by imparting its oxygen to the lin- 

such J m« P^pares the linseed oil in 

lUv & render 5t Wble of 



strengthens us in this belief t* 
cording to Leuchs a piece of chared" 
saturated with lead acetate, the char , 
can be ignited even with a bw^ 
sponge, and burns entirely to at fy! ng 
(Whoever desires to make the exr. ■' 
ment should take £ to 3 parts, by We [„u' 
of sugar of lead per 100 parts 0 f c fi 
coal.) This demonstrates that thesi/*" 
of lead readily parts with its oxvJr 
which though not burning itself S 
ports the combustion. Hence, it may t 
assumed that it will also as a siccative 
fi-cely give off its oxygen. 

Tormin reports on a siccative, of 
which he says that it has been found 
valuable for floor coatings. Its produc, 
tion is as follows: Pour 1 part of white 
lead and 1\ parts each of litharge, sugar 
of lead and red lead to \%\ parts of lb. 
seed oil, and allow this mixture to boil 
for 8 to 10 hours. Then remove tie 
kettle ifom the fire and add to the mix- 
ture 20 parts of oil of turpentine. During 
the boil big, as well as during and after 
the pouiing in of the oil turpentine, 
diligent stirring is necessary, partly to 

Erevent anything from sticking to the 
ettle (which would render the drier im- 
pure) and partly to cause the liquid 
mass to cool off sooner. After that, it is 
allowed to stand for a few days, whereby 
the whole will clarify- The upper layer 
is then poured off and added to the hffl 
tints, while the sediment may be used for 
the darker shades. 

If white vitriol (zinc sulphate or zinc 
vitriol) has been introduced among W 
drving agents, this is done in the en- 
deavor to create a non-coloring aom . 
ture for the white pigments and ftteqw 
to be compelled lo add lead compo^ 
which, as experience has shown, c 
a yellowing of white coatings t 
white. For ordinary p 
Roller recommends to add to tje. 
oil 2 per cent (by weight) of MJJj* the 
J per cent of zinc vitriol, wnerc^F ^ 
mixture is freely boiled. V ^ ^ it 



P urp . L . linseed 



vitriol is to be added in pow . 
must be deprived of its 
water. This is _ done m tne^ ^ 
manner by calcining. The po L ;„„ ot 



""""lei ujf tjo.ii.iiJ*"&- - • .1 acboi 1 
feels moist, is subjected to ll V e bv I 
fire on a sheet-iron plate, ^cfl- 
white vitriol is transformed mi j( 
lar, crumbly mass. At one u coa tj 
ground in oil for pure zinc . ^ 
ings only, while for the oth fJ e i»W* 
lithartre Is added besides, as s" &f 



. As "regards the »» n y?£%£*£S 
tions which are employed \°^ ni V oS^ 
it must be stated that they < 



637 



. j ; a A vantages of the lead prepar- 
^ in ^for instance, that of being 
a tions as, i hydrogen sulphide gas. 



not 
In 



acted T^ry "brown manganese driers, 
T be ordinary u Hable tQ render the 

howev er, < are of course , is 

P a . U for" Dure white coating*. 
Sesirable fo : pu ddition of & e S a,d 

casc of ^0 ^subsequent vc ]] 0 wing 

siccative, a sir « instance, zinc 

^^ha been considerably « broken » 

T h blue or black. But there are also 
by blue or j drymg prepara- 

^^"nffered fo sale which are colorless 
tl0U IS? and therefore may unhesitatingly 
S r e W US ed1n comparatively large quanti- 
fy for white coatings. A pulverulent 
5*' S Material of this kind consists 
Kfainp! of equal parts of calcined 
i e anhydrous) manganese vitriol, man- 
lanous acetate, and calcined zinc vitriol. 
g Of hi mixture 3 per cent is added to 
the zinc white. Of the other manganese 
compounds, especially that containing 
mostoxygen, viz., manganic peroxide, 3 
extensively employed. 1 his body IS 
Scaled as follows: It is first coarsely 
powdered, feebly calcined, and silted. 
Next, the substance is put into wire gauze 
and suspended in linseed oil, which 
should be boiled slightly. The weight 
of the linseed oil should be 10 times that 
of the manganese peroxide. 

According to another recipe a pure 
oilverous preparation may be produced 
jy treating the manganic peroxide with 
hydrochloric acid, next filtering, precipi- 
tating with hot borax solution, allowing 
to deposit, washing out and finally dry- 
ing. Further recipes will probably be 
unnecessary, since the painter will hardly 
prepare his own driers. 

Unless for special cases driers should 
be used but sparingly. As a rule 3 to 5 
per cent of siccative suffices; in other 
words, 3 to 5 pounds of siccative should 
be added to 100 pounds of ground oil 
paint ready for use. As a standard it 
niay be proposed to endeavor to have 
the coating dry in 24 hours. For lead 
colors a slight addition of drier is ad- 
visable; for red lead, it may be omitted 
altogether. Where non-tacky coatings 
are desired, as for floors, chairs, etc., as 
well as a priming for wood imitations, 
at ° ol ? r shoul d always be employed 
as toundation, and as a drier also a lead 
Preparation. On the other hand, no 
zin C0 1 n ?P° u nds should be used for pure 
"ic-wtute coats and white lacquering. 

C0 ^ estin e Siccatives. — Since it was dis- 
criJf , at the hmd and manganese 
impounds of rosin acids had a better 



and more rapid action on linaeed oil than 
the older form of driers, such as red 
lead, litharge, manganese dioxide, etc., 
the number of preparations of the former 
class has increased enormously. Man- 
ufacturers are continually at work en- 
deavoring to improve the quality of 
these compounds, and to obtain a prep- 
aration which will be peculiarly their 
own. Consequently, with such a large 
ety of substances to deal with, it 



variety ».» * '■■» >»« ,,, «nn, n. 

becomes a matter of some difficulty to 
distinguish the good from the bad. In 
addition to the general appearance, color, 
hardness, and a few other such physical 
properties, there is no means of ascer- 
taining the quality of these substances 
except practical testing of their drying 
properties, that is, one must mix the 
driers with oil and prove their value for 
oneself. Even the discovery of an ap- 
parently satisfactory variety does not end 
the matter, for experience has shown 
that such preparations, even when they 
appear the same, do not give simila 
results. A great deal depends upo 
their preparation; for example, manga 
nese resinate obtained from successiv 
consignments, and containing the sam 
percentage of manganese, does not al 
ways give identical results with oil. I 
fact, variation is the greatest drawbac 
to these compounds. With one prenar 
ation the oil darkens, with another 1 
remains pale, or sometimes decomposi- 
tion of the oil takes place m part. Lb 
addition of a small proportion of -lrie 
has been known to cause the separatio 
of 50 per cent of the oil as a dark vi'cou 
mass One drier will act well, ard th 
oil will remain thin, while with anothe 
the same oil will in the course of 1 re 
months thicken to the cojaurterqrj 
stand oil. These various actions may all 
be obtained from the same compound of 
rosin with a metal, the source only of th 

^xUTqufd «i«*tives derived from 
these compounds by solution m turpen- 

• „ t h e temperature, this maw 
ing tne more, and a is- 



638 



SICCATIVES 



ql-ow even greater variation, 
h-makers, ? l,ow e ^ ^ drvma power 
At the same time, ^^^f/Kmrosiii 
is obtained from them man ge 
acids, quantiti es equaK a ^ 
compounds Je^.^^fSJ'or tiipen- 

T8 ¥^i°mSon y of these bodies »ay 
^^oM^lmseed oil with 

or without heat. , JriVr in 

5 —By first dissolving the drier n 
turpentine and mixing the cooled solu- 
tion (liquid siccatives) with linseed oil. 

Before proceeding to describe the 
method of P carrying out "egoxng 
tests, it is necessary ^emphasize the 



irnpnrtent" part which ^ Wed 
plays in the examination of the driers. 
As part of the information to be gamed 
by these tests depends upon the amount 
of solid matter which separates out, it is 
essential that the linseed oil should be 
uniform. To attain this end, the oil 
used must always be freed from muci- 
lage before being used for the test, it 
this cannot readily be obtained, ordinary 
linseed oil should be heated to a temper- 
ature of from 518° to 572° F., so that it 
breaks, and should then be cooled and 
filtered. With the ordinary market 
linseed oil, the amount of solid matter 
which separates varies within wide 
limits, so that if this were not removed, 
no idea of the separation of foot caused 
by the driers would be obtained. It is 
not to be understood from this that 
unbroken linseed oil is never to be used 
for ordinary paint or varnish, the warn- 
ing being only given for the sake of ar- 
riving at reliable values for the quality of 
the driers to be tested. 

A. — Solution of Drier in Linseed Oil. 
-—The precipitated metallic compounds 
of rosm (lead resinate, manganese res- 
mate and lead manganese resinate) dis- 
solve readily in linseed oil of ordinary 
temperature (60° to 70° P.). The oil is 
mixed with lfc per cent of the drier and 
subjected to stirring or shaking for 24 
tiours, the agitation being applied at 
intervals of au hour. Fused metallic res- 
mates are not soluble in linseed oil at or- 
dinars temperatures, so different treat- 
ffj*. re q"i™d for them. The oil is 
thfwi 11 an et l ame , led Pan together with 

taken £\t ? y i? solu *ion. care being 

movprl fit „ ^ the pan is then re- 

Swd'toTettle 6 TW and 

™ seme. ihe quantity of drier 



used should not exceed U to 3 per 
Ic the case of metal ic hnoleates fl^, 
linoleate, manganese linoleate and leari 
manganese linoleate), the tempera*.,?" 
must be raised above 290° F. before tZ 
will go into solution. In their ease al 
the addition should not be greater tU° 
3 pet cent. Note, after all the tests W 
settled, the _ amount of undissolved 
matter which is left at the bottom, as t jj£ 
is one of the data upon which an idea of 
the value of the drier must be formed 

B. — Solution of Drier in Turpentine 
or Benzine. — For the preparation of th ese 
liquid siccatives 1 to 1.4 parts of the 
metallic resinate or linoleate are added 
to the benzine or turpentine and dis- 
solved at a gentle heat, or the drier may 
first be melted over a fire and added to 
the solvent while in the liquid state. 
The proportion of matter which does not 
go into solution must be carefully noted 
as a factor in the valuation of the drier. 
From 5 to 10 per cent of the liquid sicca- 
tive is now added to the linseed oil, and 
the mixture shaken well, at intervals dur- 
ing 24 hours. 

Samples of all the oils prepared as 
above should be placed in small clear 
bottles, which are very narrow inside, so 
that a thin layer of the oil may be ob- 
served. The bottles are allowed to stand 
for 3 or 4 days in a temperate room, 
without being touched . When sufficient 
time has been allowed for thorough set- 
tling, the color, transparency, and con- 
sistency of the samples are carefully ob- 
served, and also the quantity and nature 
of anv precipitate which may Have 
settled" out. A note should also be mm 
of the date for future reference. «a»- 
t ally the drier which has colored tlieou 
least and left it most clean and thin, ar, 
which shows the smallest precipitate, 
the most suitable for general use. 
next important test is that ot or J * 
power, and is carried out as follow • 
few drops of the sample are placea 
clear, clean glass plate, 4 x 6 meg* 
rubbed evenly over with the ring ^ a 
plate is then placed, clean side ^ ^ 
sloping position with the u P^ ay ^ 
resting against a wall- in m 1 j^n 
excess of oil is run off and a ^ i ( t0 



It is, 



equal layer is obtained 
start the test early in the worm"* d 
can then be watched through° ul ' $ 
It should be remarked that * ^ 



IDC 



from the "tacky" stage to con 1 he0 b- 
"ly very short, so thg 
miiHt be constantly oim ^ 



ness is usually very short, 
server must be constantly 
If a good drier has been uS ^°' ho uld^ 
may be from 4 to 5 hours ana * 
12 or at the very 



may 
be more than 



SIGN CLEANING— SILVER 



639 



Klfaching of the layer should 
15. , Tbe ot ed Many of the layers, even 
* ls0 b f I I v have become as dry as they 
after the h^e ; show a .slight 

seem capable >ot d ^ *> should be set 

^"fn'a dust-free place for about 8 
f ^ then tested with the finger. 



S t S B S i; C k Letters from White 
To Remove frequently hap- 

%nSm ^t a change has to be made on 
ens that a ens , y be taken 

T'nl anoTer lubstitutel Primine 
white lead followed by dull and 
f Lz?ne VhTte paint always looks hkea 
C and 3tands P out like a pad. Lye 
.lass paper or steel chips will not attack 
Sfburned-in metallic enamel. The 
quickest plan is to grind down carefully 
with a good grindstone. 

SIGN-LETTER CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives, under Cements. 

SIGNS, TO REPAIR ENAMELED: 

See Enamels. 

SILK: 

Artificial "Rubbered" Silk. — A solu- 
tion of caoutchouc or similar gum in 
acetone is added, in any desired propor- 
tion, to a solution of nitre-cellulose in 
acetone, and the mixture is made into 
threads by passing it into water or other 
suitable liquid. The resulting threads 
are stated to be very brilliant in appear- 
ance, extremely elastic, and very resistant 
to the atmosphere and to -water. The 
product is not more inflammable than 
natural silk. 

Artificial Ageing of Silk Fabrics. — To 
give silk goods the appearance of age, 
exposure to the sun is the simplest way, 
but as this requires time it cannot always 
be employed. A quicker method con- 
sists in preparing a dirty-greenish liquor 
of weak soap water, with addition of a 
little blacking and gamboge solution. 
Wash the silk fabric in this liquor and 
dry as usual, without rinsing in clean 
water, and calender. 

Bleaching Silk.— The Lyons process of 
bleaching skeins of silk is to draw them 
T?- I tnr ? u gh a sort of aqua regia bath. 

t l i k ' s Prepared by mixing 5 parts 
« hydrochloric acid with i of nitric, 
leaving the mixture for 4 or 5 days at a 
gentle heat of about 77° F. } and then 
Quuting with about 15 times its volume 



of water. This dilution is effected in 
large tanks cut from stone. The tem- 
perature of the bath should be from 68° 
to 85° F., and the skeins should not be 
in it over 15 minutes, and frequently 
not so long as that; they must be kept in 
motion during all that time. When 
taken out, the silk is immediately im- 
mersed successively in 9, troughs of 
water, to remove every trace of the acid, 
after which they arc dried. 

Hydrogen peroxide is used as a silk 
bleach, the silk being first thoroughly 
washed with an alkaline soap and ammo- 
nium carbonate to free it of its gummy 
matter. After repeated washings in the 
peroxide (preferably rendered alkaline 
with ammonia and soda), the silk_ is 
"blued" with a solution of blue aniline 
in alcohol. 

Washing of Light Silk Goods —Tht 
best soap may change delicate tints. 
The following method is therefore pref- 
erable: First wash the silk tissue in warm 
milk. Prepare a light bran infusion, 
winch is to be decanted, and after resting 
for a time, passed over the fabric. It is 
then rinsed in this water, almost cold. 
It is moved about in all directions, anc 1 
afterwards dried on a napkin. 

SILK SENSITIZERS FOR PHOTO- 
GRAPHIC PURPOSES: 
See Photography, under Paper-bei 
sitizing Processes. 



Silver 

Antique Silver (see also Plating) .-Coa 
tbr^nfished silver articles with a thin 

various sulphides an oia v V ^ 
likewise imparted to silver. ' > f sul . 
amrjle a solution of 5 parts ot . 
am pie, * = t f) f ammonium carbonate 

phUr u an lH Pffl airt of distilled water 
are heated m i quart articles 

V the fatter lr t'turn pale gray, 

therein, the latter « & fi 

In the case of plated 



then dark gray 
deep black : blue 



~/C- S nvering must not be too thin; 
ware, the sn\er\"B 1 dating or solid 
in the case of t]»cV ffllver ^ Tte 

silver IqV,^ " f 7 a ^ D e a r more quickly, 
colors wi 1 t hcn - ^tted or otherwise 
If the coloring . s spotted warm 
imperfect dip the objects 
SSSrStSff ^ is' immediately 



640 

dissolved. 



SILVER 



The bath must be renewed 
bile. Silver containing mucb. 



or,ng ' 1 5 tS in a boiling solution of 15 
rrofpowd"cd% b alrlnd 3 0 part, of 
P ifjnff silt in 2 pints of water. Ob- 
Ss w\ ch are to* be mat are coated 
Sh a paste of potash and w ter a 



Inch 
ii pasto ... 
the blanching, then dry, anneal 



are to 

nntis ::imS wan 

cool in 

lJS " — ■ - 

water, and boil again. 

Imitation of Antique Silver, 
artides may be colored to resemble old 
made of solid silver, x ui 
the deep-lying parts, those 



-Plated 



objects of art made 

this purpose the decp-iymg — — - 

1 eLoLd to friction, are P-nled w^h 



a blackish, earthy coating, the promi 
nent parts retaining a lead" e n but b right 
color. The process is simple. A thin paste 
is made of finely powdered graphite 
and oil of turpentine (a little blood- 
stone or red ocher may be added, to imi- 
tate the copper tinge in articles of old 
silver) and spread over the whole of the 
previously plated article. It is then 
allowed to dry, and the particles not ad- 
hering to the surface removed with a soft 
brush. The black coating should then 
be carefully wiped off the exposed parts 
by means of a linen rag dipped in alco- 
hol. This process is very effective in 
making imitations of objects of antique 
art, such as goblets, candlesticks, vessels 
of every description, statues, etc. If it 
is desired to restore the original bright- 
ness to the object, this can be done by 
washing with caustic soda or a solution 
of cyanide of potassium. Benzine can 
also be used for this purpose. 

Blanching Silver. — I. — Mix pow- 
dered charcoal, 3 parts, and calcined 
borax, 1 part, and stir with water so as 
to make a homogeneous paste. Apply 
this paste on the pieces to be blanched. 
Put the pieces on a charcoal fire, taking 
care to cover them up well; when they 
have acquired a cherry red, withdraw 
them from the fire and leave to cool off. 
■Next place them in a hot bath composed 
ot 9 parts of water and 1 part of sul- 
furic acid, without causing the bath to 
boil. .Leave the articles in for about 1 
hour. Remove them, rinse in clean 
water, and dry, 

f J3"TS coa t of t™sh on the sur- 

SSSi ii 6 £ lver 15 but u s ht and su P Rr " 

wi h . SUfGcC3 *° rub the P ie ^ well 
W,th green soap to wash it thoroughly 

.Wi.* ? ro "?h .alcohol, finally rub- 



th? e W ol r ^ C ^ h or b ™sh. Should 
< <'isi St this treatment, brush 
white, then wash, dry, and 



resist 
™ith Spanish 



pass through alcohol. The empl 0va 
of Spanish white has the drawback of 



strong and prolonged. If the oxidati 
has withstood these means and if ]t > 
desired to impart to the chain the hand* 
some mat appearance of new goods \ 
should be annealed in charcoal dust and 
passed through vitriol, but this operation 
for those unused to it, is very dan K er 0 ii 
to the soldering and consequently xxyl 
spoil the piece. 1 

Coloring Silver —A rich gold tint ma 7 
be imparted to silver articles by plung 
ing them into_ dilute sulphuric acid 
saturated with iron rust. 1 

Frosting Polished Silver.— Articles of 
polished silver may be frosted by putting 
them into a bath of nitric acid diluted 
with an equal volume of distilled water 
and letting them remain a few minutes. 
A better effect may be given by dipping 
the article frequently into the bath until 
the requisite degree of frosting has been 
attained. Then rinse and place for a 
few moments in a strong bath of potas- 
sium cyanide; remove and rinse. The 
fingers must not be allowed to touch the 
article during either process. It should 
be held with wooden forceps or [.damps. 

Fulminating Silver. — Dissolve 1 part 
of fine silver in 10 parts of nitric acid of 
1.36 specific gravity at a moderate heat 1 , 
pour the solution into 20 parts of spirit 
of wine (85 to 90 per cent) and heat the 
liquid. As soon as the mixture begins 
to boil, it is removed from the fire and 
left alone until cooled off. The fulminic 
silver crystallizes on cooling in very fine 
needles of dazzling whiteness, which are 
edulcorated with water and dried care- 
fully in the air. 

Hollow Silverware. — A good process 
for making hollow figures consists m 
covering models of the figures, _ ninoe 
a base or easily soluble metal, witA awj* 
and uniform coating of a nobler metal, ^ 
means of the electric current in sue \_ 
way that this coating takes approMni i 
ly the shape of the model, the latter Wag 
then removed by dissolving it * itn „ or 
The model is cast from zinc m 0*^3 
more pieces, a well-chased brass^ ^\ 



being used for this purpose, 



separate parts are then yoUierKa e Vure 
with an easily fusible solder. m x j oa ljii£r 
is then covered with a galvanized ^ aT ' e 
of silver, copper, or other metal. ^ 
receiving the coating of silver, J * n s # 0 f 
is first covered with a thin <W 



copper, the silver being added after 
in the required thickness. But 



, j ann *it of silver may be of the 
^^fiSes throughout (this i».«J- 
s^e .^Te'fgure is to keep the right 
^ el,tia filver anodes, so constructed and 
shape)- 81 ' ' •>« 



SILVER 



641 



ed as to correspond .^w closely as 



arrangea - out lines of the figure, 
possible to ti ; n the so l u tion of 

should be wsp« tassium pn both 

^nfthe n'ure, and at equal distances 
sides of tae n^^ as the deposit is suffi- 



the zinc can 



s» ucs As soon as tne aepui.ii. « 
f rom , u va- the figure is removed from 
ciently thick, the ftgu & batl . 

the bath, washed, « hydrochloric acid, 

di i Ute it i K mved to remain till the zinc 
where it i£ i Th decomp0 s,tion of 

c oreisdissohed acc A lerated by ^ dding a 

The figure now requires 
tartrate 

1st be covered first With a thin layer 
3 5ver then with the copper coating, 
id then once more with a thin layer 
Silver, so that while the zinc is being 
dissolved, the copper may be protect- 
ed on either side by the silver. .Similar 
precautions must be taken with other 
metals, regard being paid to their pecu- 
liar properties. Another method is to 
cast the figures, entire or m separate 
parts, out of some easily fusible alloy in 
chased metal molds. The separate por- 
tions are soldered with the same solder, 
and the figure is then provided with a 
coating of copper, silver, etc., by means 
of the galvanic current. It is then placed 
in boiling water or steam, and the inner 
alloys melted by the introduction of the 
water or steam through holes bored for 
this purpose. 

Lustrous Oxide on Silver (see also Plat- 
ing and Silver, under Polishes). — Some 
experience is necessary to reproduce a 
handsome black luster. Into a cup filled 
with water throw a little liver of sulphur 
and mix well. Scratch the silver article as 
hrieht as possible with the scratch brush 
and dip into the warm liquid. Remove 
the object after % minutes and rinse off 
in water. _ Then scratch it up again and 
return it into the liquid. The process 
should be repeated a or 3 times, whereby 
a wonderful glossy black is obtained. 

Ornamental Designs on Silver. — Select 
a smooth part of the silver, and sketch on 
« a monogram or any other design with 
a sharp lead pencil. Place the article in 
a ROld solution, with the battery in good 
working order, and in a short time all the 
Parts not sketched with the lead pencil 
will be covered with a coat of gold. After 
cleaning ,i , r , 



silver ornament is disclosed. A gold or- 
nament may be produced by reversing 
the process. 

Separating Silver from Platinum Waste. 

— Cut the waste into small pieces, make 
red hot to destroy grease and organic 
substances, and dissolve in aqua regia 
(hydrochloric acid, 3 parts, and nitric 
acid, 1 part). Platinum and all other 
metals combined with it are thus dis- 
solved, while silver settles on the bot- 
tom as chloride in the shape of a gray, 
spongy powder. The solution is then 
drawn off and tested by oxalic acid for 
gold, which is precipitated as a fine yel- 
lowish powder. The other metals re- 
main untouched thereby. The plati- 
num still present in the solution is now 
obtained by a gradual addition of sal 
ammoniac as a yellowish-gray powder. 
These different precipitates are washed 
with warm water, dried, and transformed 
into the metallic state by suitable fluxes. 
Platinum filings, however, have to be 
previously refined. They are also first 
annealed. All steel or iron filings are 
removed with a magnet and the rest is 
dipped into concentrated sulphuric acid 
and heated with this to the boiling point. 
This process is continued as long as an 
action of the acid is noticeable. < Ihe 
remaining powder is pure platinum. 
Hot sulphuric acid dissolves silver with- 
out touching the platinum. The liquid 
used for the separation of the platinum is 
now diluted with an equal quantity of 
water and the silver expelled from it by 
means of a saturated cooking ^ solu- 
tion. The latter is added gradual!; 
until no more action, i. e., separation, is 
nercePtible. The liquid is carefully 
Srawn off. the residue washed m , warm 
water dried and melted with a little 
Toda ashes as flux, which yields pure me- 

ta T C hfold process for separating 
from waste was as follows The refuse 

££ ' Carbona^'da is another good 
flux. 



qiWerintr Glass Globes.— Take J oun 
of^, and melt * with .n eq- 

^tfi ote^of bfsmSrand carefull 
from the fire and be ore it grows 



«^ nin K , th e arti cl e th e bl ack lead is easily , 
-moved with the finger, whereupon the | When 



*p and beiorenisi""" — - , . 
6 0 »„ees o?re r ,y and St, t J who., 
well together; then put the ttU ( 1, 



together u»" p- - ~r . fi , for us , 
*» m m SS amall^s " ed tor silvern,, 



042 



SILVER 




into 
the alloy 



hould be poured into the globe 
of a paper or glass funnel 



by r an Vmo t to the bottom of the 
F ?£ U fo prevent it splashing the sides; 
fhe Sobe P shouTd be turned every way 
very S slowl yj to fasten the silvering. 

Silvering Powder for Metals.— Cop- 
and some other metals may be 
SK'eS by rubHng well with the folfow- 
?nJ oowder: Potassium cyanide,. 12 
P a g rts! Slver nitrate, 6 oarts; calcium 



carbonate, 30 parts. Mix ana Keep 
well-closed bottle. It must be applied 
Zill hJS rubbing, the bright surface 
TJ.L .forwards rinsed with water, dried, 



Mix and keep m a 

eV 1 
fng, 

being afterwards rinse- 
and polished. Great care must be ex- 
Seised in the use of the powder on 
account of its poisonous nature. It 
should not be allowed to come m con- 
tact with the hands. 

Silver Testing.— For this purpose a 
cold saturated solution _ of potassium 
bichromate in pure nitric acid of 1.2 
specific gravity is employed. After the 
article to be tested has been treated with 
spirit of wine for the removal of any 
varnish coating which might be present, 
a drop of the above test liquor is applied 
by means of a glass rod and the resultant 
spot rubbed off with a little water. 

A testing solution of potassium bi- 
chromate, 1 ounce, pure nitric acid, 6 
ounces, and water, £ ounces, gives the 
following results on surfaces of the 
metals named: 



Metal. 



Pure silver 

.925 silver 

.800 silver 

.600 silver 

German silver 

Nickel 

Copper 

Brass 

Lead 

Tin 

Zinc 

Aluminum 

Platinum 

Iron 

9-oarat gold 



Color in one 
minute. 



Bright blood-red 
Dark red 
Chocolate 
Green 
Dark blue 
Turquoise blue 
Very dark blue 
Dark brown 
Nut brown 
Reddish brown 
Light chocolate 
Yellow 

Vandyke brown 

Various 

Unchanged 



Color of mark 
left. 



Grayish white 
Dark brown 
Dark brown 
Dark brown 
Light gray 
Scarcely any 
Cleaned copper 
Light brown 
Leaden 
Dark 

Steel gray 
No stain 
No stain 
Black 
No stain 



1 he second column in the table shows 
such change of color as the liquid—not 
tne metal— undergoes during its action 

HLIa% P - etlod , of 1 mi nute. The test 
S J^g. then washed off with cold 

S th* \ • li l? d ^V 1111 " s hows the nature 
of the stain that is left. 



I 

sue 



n the case of faintly silvered g 00rlis 
,_h as buttons, this test fails, since ?)> 
slight quantity of resulting silver Cu " e 
mate does not become visible or di 
acid present, gjj 



mate 

solves in the 

such a thin 



nitric 

coat 



even sucu » °f silver can U 

recognized with the above test liquor if 
the bichromate _ solution is used, diluted 



■with the equal volume of water, or if 
small drop of water is first put on the 
tide and afterwards a little drop 0 f the 



ar- 



undiluted solution is applied by m eaD3 
of a capillary tube. In this manner a 
distinct red spot was obtained in the case 
of very slight silvering. 

A simpler method is as follows; : Jtnja 
the piece to be tested on the touchstone 
and moisten the mark with nilric acid, 
whereupon^ it disappears. Add a little 
hydrochloric acid with a glass rod. If 
a white turbidness (silver chloride) ap- 
pears which does not vanish upon addi- 
tion of water, or, in case of faint silvering 
or an alloy poor in silver, a weak opal- 
escence, the presence of silver is certain. 
Even alloys containing very little silver 
give this reaction quite distinctly. 

Pink Color on Silver. — To produce a 
beautiful pink color upon silver, dip the 
clean article for a few seconds into a hot 
and strong solution of cupric chloride, 
swill it in water and then dry it or dip it 
into spirit of wine and ignite the spirit. 



SILVER PLATING POWDER: 

This is intended for use on brass and 
copper articles. 

Chloride of silver ... 1 ounce 

Pearl ash - 3 ounces 

Common salt V/ s ounces 

Whiting 1 oimce 

These ingredients should be in as fine 
a powder as is possible to reduce tnew 
and thoroughly mixed together. 

The article to be silvered should £ 
thoroughly cleaned and wiped dry. ^. 
with a soft piece of leather, that has ^ 
dampened in water and dipped in ^ 
powder thoroughly rub the article ^ 
plated so that every section reCCI ^; Iiea 
even coat. It should then be w 
well in hot water and wiped drf. 

SILVER -PLATING: 

See Plating. . 

SILVER, RECOVERY OF ^ 
GRAPHIC : 

See Photography. 

SILVER SOLDERS: 
See Solders. 



SKIN BLEACH FOR NEGROES— SNAKE BITES 643 



In the 
a good 



SKIN BLEACH FOR NEGROES : 
Black Sto Whitner.- g ^ 

I— Yellow wax ^ g ounces 

Vaseline - • • • ■ ■ ■ ■■ 2 ounces 

°n toSther in a double boiler. 
Md V he Sre and add a solution of 
Take off w Corrosive sup limate in one 
10 ^Sdcohol and pour into jars while 
ounce <^ f» m be ^ed before retiring, 
warm. A,,ia , i ce nec k and arms with 
FirS od W so'p and St water. Rince well 
* Tdrv Sen apply the eream, 
■nl' wash off and apply 
SSf Do this at least 1 Wry other 

TI -Paraffin Wax 6 ounces 

* White Petrolatum ....1 pound 
2% Solution Bichloride 

of mercury 1 pound 

Melt the waxes, take off the fire and 
add the heated solution, a little at a 
time, stirring well until cold. Wash the 
face well and after drying apply the 
cream. Use before retiring. 

SKIN OINTMENTS: 

See Ointments. 

SKIN FOODS : 

See Cosmetics. 

SKIN TROUBLES: 
See Soap. 



SLATE: 

Artificial Slate. — The artificial slate 
coating on tin consists of a mixture of 
finely ground slate, lampblack, and a 
water-glass solution of equal parts of 
potash and soda water glass (1.25 specific 
gravity). The process is as follows: 
. L — First prepare the water-glass solu- 
tion by finely crushing equal parts of 
solid, potash and soda water glass and 



be colored in the same manner. The 
coating protects the zinc from oxidation 



woul, 8 ^iulccis uie zinc irom oxidation 
and consequently from destruction. For 
painting zinc plate, however, only pure 
potash water glass must be added to the 
mixture, as the paint would loosen or 
peel off from the zinc if soda water glass 
were used. 



— ">a_ [juiiisu ana soaa water glass ant 
pouring over this 6 to 8 times the quan- 
tity of so f t river water, which is kep J 
Doihng about H hours, whereby the 
jater glass is completely dissolved. Add 
'P" ts finely crushed slate finely ground 
In f i e water into impalpable dust, 
f .PMUampblack, which is ground with 
thp« ?nnd felloll gh °f this mass with 
tion Piously prepared water-glass solu- 
en s t; aS ls " ec essary for a thick or thin 
eST ? lth this compound the rough- 
n n -ui P ates are Pointed as uniformly 
Possible. Fo r roofing, zinc plate may 
21 



II.— Good heavy paper or other sub- 
stance is saturated with linseed-oil varnish 
and then painted, several coats, one 
after another with the following mixture: 
Copal varnish. ... 1 part 

Oil of turpentine 2 parts 

Fine, dry sand, pow- 
dered 1 part 

Powdered glass 1 part 

Ground slate 2 parts 

Lampblack 1 part 

SLIDES FOR LANTERNS: 

See Photography. 

SLIDES, MICROSCOPICAL, 
TO CLEAN: 

The slides may be boiled in nitric acid 
and alcohol or allowed to stand for sev- 
eral hours in a solution of bichromate of 
potash and sulphuric acid. After careful 
rinsing, they are ready for use. 

SNAKE BITES. 

About 25 years ago. Dr. S. Weir 
Mitchell and Dr. Reichert published 
results of their investigations of snake 
venom which indicated that permanga- 
nate of potassium may prove of material 
value as an antidote to this lethal sub- 
stance. Since that time permanganate 
has been largely used all over, the world 
as a remedy when men and amma^ 
bitten by poisonous snakes, and &ir 
Lauder Brunton devised an instrument 
bv means of which the permanganate 
XTe'readily carried in tfe pocket an 
immediately injected into or intc . tM 

Se bTefi'A cobra; 

free crucial ™^^$*Sl}n£ 
the vound was thoroug y q{ 

a hot solution of f e J man f Recovery 
tassium, and then bandage; a - h h the 
occurred in each in stance ? on of 
cauterant achon of ^^delayed heal- 



cauterant action 
nermancanate ot p^ 1 
fng so fong that the part ^ 
f orabout 3 w^ks. Ba AboU of 



ago, Dr. Afflos J»«. «. h j- h e3 
of treatment. 



SOAPS 



instance — . 
ide which, though a 
decomposes in 



644 

Soaps 

(See also Cleaning Compounds and 
Polishes.) 

^TISEPTIC SOAP 

to incorporate ant isep i unsuc . 

rawing to the unfavorable ac- 
C - CSsf y ;he added components, a good 

powerful antiseptic, 
the soap and loses 
soon aecoiop^ » ^ caustic character 

t Fhe^ de Ven ders to use precarious 
In'Xi th r e e soa P is fresh, unless great 
care iitaken. However, according to a 
German patent, zinc peroxide is free 
froTthese defects, since it retains its 
Sbili y and has no corrosive action on 
Z skin, while possessing powerfu ant, 
septic and cosmetic properties, and has a 
direct curative influence when applied to 
cuts or wounds. 

II —The soap is prepared by melting 
80 parts of household soap in a jack- 
eted pan, and gradually adding 20 parts 
of moist zinc peroxide (50 per cent 
strength), the whole being kept well 
stirred all the time. The finished mix- 
ture will be about as stiff as dough, and 
is easily shaped into tablets of conven- 
ient size. 

III. — Take 50 parts, by weight, of 
caustic soda of 70 per cent, and free from 
carbonic acid, if possible; 200 parts, by 
weight, of sweet almond oil; 160 parts, by 
weight, of glycerine of 3C° Be.; and suf- 
ficient distilled water to make up 1,000 
parts_ by weight. First, dissolve the 
alkali in double its weight of water, then 
add the glycerine and oil and stir together. 
Afterwards, add the remainder of the 
water and keep the whole on the water 
bath at a temperature of 140° to 158° F., 
for 24 to 36 hours; remove the oil not 
saponified, which gives a gelatinous mass. 
Mix 900 parts, by weight, of it with 70 
parts by weight, of 90 per cent alcohol 
ana 10 parts, by weight, of lemon oil, 

& 140 ° ?•> t^n allow to cool 

SUate 3 s t V , Y ninate the n < ! fii : " f 
»tearate of potash. The 

altering remains clear. 
Carpet Soap.— 

Tint. „ ". o ounces 

witTa°^V a - nd make in *° a stiff 
Uh a efficiency of soft soap. 



e hours 
and filter 
leedles of 
liquid after 



To Cut Castile Soap.— ^ t ^ in 
jnust be used. To cut strait 
trough with open ends made with l 
boards should be taken, the \ ■ 
dimensions being a J in cnes ^J^a 
inches deep, and about 14 inchc ■' 3 * 



J neh 



Near the end a perpendicular 
sawed through the side pieces p . 13 
the spatula down through this s l?If? 
bar is cut neatly and straight * 



trimming off the 
small iron plane works 

COLORING SOAP. 

The first point to be observed k 
select the proper shade of fl 0Wer ™ 
responding with the perfume used fo> 
instance, an almond soap is left white 
rose soap is colored pink or red; rail 
gnonette, green, etc. 

The colors from which the soapmaker 
may select are numerous; not only are 
most of the coal-tar colors adapted for 
his purpose, but also a very great number 
of mineral colors. Until recently, the 
latter were almost exclusively employed, 
but the great advance in the tar-color 
industry has brought about a change. A 
prominent advantage of the mineral 
colors is their stability; they are not 
changed or in any way affected by ex- 
posure to light. This advantage, how- 
ever, is offset in many cases by the more 
difficult method of application, the diffi- 
culty of getting uniform shades. The 
coal-tar colors give brilliant shades and 
tints, are easy to use, and produce uni- 
form tints. The specific gravity ot 
mineral colors being rather high, in most 
cases they will naturally tend to seme 
toward the bottom of soap, and their use 
necessitates crutching of the soap im j 
is too thick to allow the color to setU& 
For mottled soap, however, vermU^j 
red oxide, and ultramarine are 
largely employed. 



ral colws 



are 
fro 




■. their transparency, i»* ^ yeJ y 
soap, on the other hand, they 3 
well adapted, as also for cold-maae ^ ( 
whinh T-^rtiiirp nriitching any^*.. , el 



which require crutehing a.nj »j> ^ e p 
v is obtained w 

jded- f 



sufficient consistency 
the coloring niate . in the u se 



ess 



A notable disadvantage 111 itir eii 
aniline colors, besides their se [^piUtf 
to the action of light, is the taw desiT o& 
of them are affected and part 1 ,) { # m 



by the action of alk. 
proof against a small excess 



thcse_may be used with g^J^J*' 



Cef 



tain firms have made a speci 



the P 1 

facturing colors answering ^ ^ 
requirements of soap, bcin„ 



SOAPS 



645 



« n as +hey are simply dissolved 
application, as zney solution stir red 
fn boiling water an* ^ a little 

into the soap- , tfaers are mixed with 

ff f t ^, y oi before they are added to the 
a little o« 



a 

soa 



tP" =nluble red color there were 
. used afkanet and cochineal; at 

fonn t these have been displaced to a 
P reS fe, en on account of their high 
F C 't hi magenta, which is very cheap 
C fd of Remarkable beauty. A - 



very 

^II "moim? suffices for "an intense 
rtion desirable 



SI , I k a lar«*e proportion desirable, 
COl ?lie soap would then stain. Delicate 
are also produced by the : cosine 
^Inrs of whict rose bengal, phloxme, 
Z Lmine and cosine are most com- 

t°nlY TheSe S° l0rS ' When V t 

X'i have a brilliant fluorescence which 

hthtens their beautiful effect 

The following minerals, after being 

ground and washed several times m 

foiling water, will produce the colors 

stated: , 
Hematite produces deep red. 
Purple oxide iron produces purple. 
Oxide of manganese produces brown. 
Yellow ocher produces yellow. 
Yellow oeher calcined produces orange. 
Umber produces fawn. 
Cinnabar produces medium red. 
There are also a number of the azo 
dyes, which are suitable for soaps, and 
these, as well as the eosine colors, are 
used principally for transparent soaps. 
For opaque soaps both aniline and 
mineral reds are used, among the latter 
being vermilion, chrome red, and iron 
oxide. Chrome red is a basic chromate 
of lead, which is now much used in place 
of vermilion, but, as it becomes black on 
exposure to an atmosphere containing 
even traces only of sulphureted hydro- 
gen, it is not essentially adapted for soap. 
Vermilion gives a bright color, but its 
price is high. Iron oxide, known in the 
trade as colcothar, rouge, etc., is used 
for cheap soaps only. 

Among the natural colors for yellow 
are saffron, gamboge, turmeric, and 
caramel (sugar color) ; the first named of 
these is now hardly used, owing to its 
n 'gh cost. Of the yellow aniline colors 
special mention must be made of picric 
acid (trinitrophenol), martius yellow, 
japuthol yellow, acid yellow, and aura- 
tra ne " * an oran g e tint is wanted, a 
aJuj. ma genta or safranine may be 
added to the yellow colors named. The 
tW * 1° me un bleached palm oil with 
the ? l an , sw ers a similar purpose, but 
v«*ll ■ fa des on exposure. A mineral 
' ow 13 chrome yellow (chromate of 



h^ad), which has the same advantages 
and disadvantages as chrome red. 

Of the blue aniline colors, there may 
be used alkali blue, patent blue, and 
indigo extract. Alkali or aniline blue is 
soluble only in alkaline liquids; while 
patent blue is soluble in water and in 
alcohol. Both blues can be had in 
different brands, producing from green 
blues to violet blues. Indigo extract, 
which should be classed among the 
natural colors rather than among the tar 
colors, is added to the soap in aqueous 
solution. 

Of ultramarine there are two modifica- 
tions, the sulphate and the soda. Both 
of these are proof against the action of 
alkali, but are decomposed by acids or 
salts having an acid reaction. The 
former is much paler than the latter; tht 
soda ultramarine is best adapted 
coloring soda soaps blue. The ul. 
marine is added to the soap in the fori 
of a fine powder. Smalt is unsuitable, 
although it gives soap a color of won- 
derful beauty < because a considerable 
quantity of it is required to produce a 
deep color, and, furthermore, it makes 
the soap rough, owing to the gritty 
nature which smalt has even when in the 
finest powder. By mixing the blue anc 
yellow colors named, a great variety c 
greens are obtained. Both componei 
colors must be entirely free from an 
reddish tint, for the latter would caus 
the mixture to form a dirty-green color 
Of the colors producing green directij 
the two tar colors, Victoria and brilliar 
green, are to be noted; these give a brigl 
color, but fade rapidly; thereby the soa 
acquires an unsightly appearance. * 
opaque soap of the better grades, gret 
ultramarine or chrome green are use 
Gray and black are produced by lamf 
black. For brown, there is Bismarc 
brown among the aniline colors ,n 
umber among the earthy pigments. 

Garment-Cleaning Soap.-The f ollc* 
ing is excellent: 

I* — White soap, rasped 

or shaved,. * P 

Ammonia water.. .. P 
Boiling water ™ P aris 

SS Solution the ammonia water Po^ 
the solution in o a X u t°three time 
capacity (or homing". d ug 



646 

bottle. 



SOAPS 



To make up the mass or paste 



^tTteaspoonful in an 8-ounce bottle 
Ed adX a P Httle_at a time, with constant 
si o o ux 



„ zinc to acoux fill the hot- 
I 11 " This preparation is a rapid cleaner 
and does *"»* imure the most 



delicate 



165 parts 
45 parts 
190 parts 



prep: 

not injure 

colors. 

II, Good bar soap, 

shaved up 

Ammonia water. . 

Benzine 

Water sufficient 

to make 1,000 parts 

Dissolve the soap in 600 parts of water 
bv 1 eat ng on the water bath, remove, 
ami add fhe ammonia under constant 
Srring. Finally add the benzine, and 
si J until homogeneous, and quite cold. 
The directions to go with this paste are. 
Rub the soap well into the spot and lay 
the garment aside for a half hour. 
Then using a stiff brush, rub with warm 
water and rinse. This is especially use- 
ful in spots made by rosins, oils, grease, 
etc. Should the spot be only partially 
removed by the first application, repeat. 

Glycerine Soaps. — Dr. Sarg's liquid 
glycerine soap consists of 334 parts of 
potash soda soap, and 666 parts of glyc- 
erine free from lime, the mixture being 
scented with Turkish rose oil and orange 
blossom oil in equal proportions, the 
actual amount used being varied accord- 
ing to taste. The soap should be per- 
fectly free from alkali; but as this is a 
condition difficult of attainment in the 
case of ordinary potash soaps, it is pre- 
supposed that the soap used has been 
salted out with potassium chloride, this 
being the only way to obtain a soap free 
from alkali. 

Another variety of liquid glycerine 
soap is prepared from purified medicinal 
soft soap, 300 parts; glycerine free from 
lime, 300 parts; white sugar syrup, 300 
parts; doubly rectified spirit (96 per cent), 
300 parts. The mixture is scented with 
oil of cinnamon, 1 part; oil of sassafras, 
2 parts; oil of citronella, \ part; oil of 
wmtergreen, 1 part; African geranium 
oil, 1 part; clove oil, \ part; oil of berga- 
mot, 3 parts; pure tincture of musk, \ 

h k ° ilS dissolvecI in s P Jrr t> 



and shaken up with the other ingredi- 
ents; then left for 8 days with frequent 
"aking. and 3 days in absolute quiet, 
after which the whole is filtered, and is 
then ready for packing. 



Iodine 



Soaps. - 



-In British hospitals, 
coh 0 Ti^i^ g, ^ n to.oleic acid over al- 



the for 



ic preparations for iodine soa 
mer do not st ai n and can be washed 



ps, as 



off with soap and water. The following 
formula is given: 

I. — Iodine . 1 av. ounce 

Oleic acid 1 fluidounce 

Alcohol 6 fluidrachma 

Stronger water of 

ammonia 2 fluidrachms 

This makes a soapy paste soluble in all 
liquids, except fixed oils. 

II. — Iodine . 1 av. ounce » 

Oleic acid 2 fluidounces 

Stronger water of 

ammonia. 3 fluidrachni s 

Paraffins oil, col- 
orless, to make 20 fluidounces 

III. — Iodine 1 av. ounce 

Alcohol 5 fluidounces 

Solution of am- 
monium oleate. 1 fluidounce 
Glycerine to make 20 fiuidouuees 
The solution of ammonium oleate is 
made from oleic acid and spirit of am- 
monia. 

Liquid Soaps. — Liquid soaps, or, as 
they are sometimes called, soap essences, 
are made from pure olive-oil soap by 
dissolving it. in alcohol and adding some 
potassium carbonate. Tallow or lard 
soaps cannot be used, as they will not 
make a transparent preparation. The 
soap is finely shaved and placed with the 
alcohol and potassium carbonate in a 
vessel over a water bath, the temperature 
slowly and gradually raised, while the 
mixture is kept in constant agitation by 
stirring. The soap should be of a pure 
white color and the alcohol gives the best 
product when it is about SO per cent 
strength. After about three-quarters 
of an hour to one hour, solution will ue 
complete and a perfectly transparent 
article obtained. This can be scented 
as desired by adding the proper essen- 
tial oil as soon as the mixture is remcvea 
from the w T ater bath. , j 

If an antiseptic soap is wanted tue 
dition of a small amount of benzoic jMg 
formaldehyde, or corrosive siibiin . 
will give the desired product. W 
soaps should contain from 20 to w 
cent of genuine white castile soap 
about 2 to 24 per cent of potassium 
bonate. 

This is a common formula: 

By weight 

L — Olive or cottonseed 

oil 60 parts 

Caustic potash, U. _. a 
g p c 15 pa" 3 

Alcohol and water, 
sufficient of each. 



i ihf notash in 1 ounce of 

fftat the P oiI on a water bath, 

"a the solution of potash previously 

add ,A and stir briskly- Continue the 

K i ^til saponification is complete. If 

^ i hnl ps separate out and refuse to 
ml globules se] p . g ^ of propM 

saP ° flJ'nnd more must be added— 1 or 
strellg i t '< solved in water. If desired 



transparent - ■ ^.^ ^ fl 

K ptced in cold water first solidifies 

^fcS%si may be used but 
tl»» strength must be ascertained and ad- 
ust d by experiment. . The soap thus 
Zd Twill belike jelly; rt is dissolved in 
Xohol 4 to 6 ounces of soap to 2 of 
alcohol, and after standing a day or two 
is filtered and perfumed, as desired. A 
rancid oil would be easier to saponify, 
but the soap would likely be rancid or 
not as good. 

II Ammonium sulphoichthyolate, 10 

parts; distilled water, 15 parts; hebra's 
soap spirit (a solution of potash soap, 
120 parts, in 90 per cent spirit, 60 parts; 
and spirit of lavender, 5 parts), 75 parts. 

MEDICATED SOAPS. 

First make up a suitablesoap body and 
afterwards add the medicament. For 
instance, carbolic soaps may be made as 
follows: 

I.— Cocoanut oil 20 pounds 

Tallow 4 pounds 

Soda lye (38° to 40° 

B.) 12 pounds 

Phenol 1 pound 

Prepare the body soap by stirring the 
liquefied fat into the lye at 113° F., and 
when combination has set in, incorpo- 
rate the phenol and quickly pour into 
molds. Cover the latter well. Instead 
of the phenol 2 pounds of sulphur may 
used, and a sulphur soap made. 

Parts by 
weight 

U. — Cotton oil 200 

Alcohol, 91 per cent 300 

Water. 325 

Caustic soda 45 

Potassium carbonate 10 

Ether 15 

Carbolic acid 25 

The oil is mixed in a large bottle with 
water, 100 parts; alcohol, 200 parts; and 
fustic soda, 45 parts, and after saponi- 
^ation the remaining alcohol and the 
{?i as ! l lu L m carbonate dissolved in the 
zV\a , e water * and finally the carbolic 
aci i and the ether are added and the 



whole well shaken. The mixture is 
failed m tightly closed bottles and stored 
at medium temperature. The prepara- 
tion may be scented as desired, and the 
carbolic acid replaced with other anti- 
septics. 

Liquid Tar Soap. — Mix 200 parts of tar 
with 400 parts of oleic acid, warm lightly 
and filter. In this way the aqueous con- 
tent produces no trouble. Now warm 
the filtrate on the water bath, neutralize 
by stirring in an alcoholic potash solution. 
To the soap thus produced, add 100 parts 
of alcohol, and further a little olive oil, in 
order to avoid a separation of any over- 
plus of alkaline matter. Finally, bring up 
to 1,000 parts with glycerine. This soap, 
containing 22 per cent of tar, answers all 
possible demands that may be made upon 
it. Mixed with 2 parts of distilled water 
it leaves no deposit on the walls of the 
container. 

Liquid Styrax Soap.— The process is 
identical with the foregoing. For diges- 
tion with oleic acid, the crude balsai 
will answer, since filtration deprives th' 
product of all contaminating substances. 
While this soap will separate, it is easily 
again rendered homogeneous with a vigor 
ous shake. Preparations made^vith i 
should be accompanied with a "shake 
label. 

Superfatted Liquid Lanolin-Glycerin 
Soap.— Dissolve about 10 per cent o 
lanolin in oleic acid, saponify as m th 
tar soap, and perfume (for which a solu- 
tion of coumarin in geranium oil is pro b 
ably the most suitable agent). 1 he pr 
pared soap is improved by the additio 
of a little tincture of benzoin. 

Massage Soaps.-I .-An excellent red 
for a massage soap is: Special cocoanu 
oil ground soap, 2,500 pounds; lanolin 
50 founds; pine-needle oil 20 pounds 
spike oil, 3 pounds. Other massag 
soaS are ma£e from olive oil groun 
soap to which in special cases, as in th 

kl n S l_Cocoanutoil. 1,000 pounds; caus 

tic V n fete?'. 

rfSt ffidi There is also 



JT» which differs from th 
"massage cream, wtucn ai 
ordinary massage soaps in ben g : 
with a soft potash soap as a gro ^ 



The 



^K^incorpo rated 



roU mass age exactly the 



th 



'cream 



as in the soap 



SOAPS 



. . nv qnaos —Metallic soaps are 

^ ta '\ l i , ™2E's of double decomposi- 
obtained by means oL d t . ou ^ 

tion. Firs* » soap he other 

which » brought to a bo * of the 

hand »a ^of w\£h the combination is 

m f ll nade (chlorides and sulphides are 
to be made (cnio f , j prepared, 

employed with pre ^^d^tlicr, 
^ttetamc ^oap obtained is gath- 
£d a m hnen cloth P This is then put 
In enameled plates and dried, fast 

£gl the most important. 
TWved hbeniine or oil of .turpentine, 
^furnishes an excellent varnish It has 
K proposed to use these solutions , for 
tfrvfrnishing of leather; they further- 
ttrlserv fof the production of water- 
proof Hnen and cloth,, paper etc 
Srry recommended this compound 
impregnating railroad ties to rei 
them weatherproof. . , 

Manganese soap is used as a siccative 
in the preparation of lmseed-oil varnish, 
well as for a drier to be added to 



the bath and stir until the soap begin*, t 
set, then pour into molds. ° ' tQ 

II. — The hydrocarbons (as petrol 
vaseline, etc.) are boiled with - 



for 
render 



Zinc soap is used in the same 



as 

paints, 
manner. , 

Copper soap enters into the composi- 
tion of gilding wax, and is also employed 
for bronzing plaster of Paris articles. 
For the same purpose, a mixture is made 
use of consisting of copper soap and iron 
soap melted in white lead varnish and 
wax. Iron soap is used with aluminum 
soap for waterproofing purposes and for 
the production of a waterproof varnish. 
By using wax instead of a soap, insoluble 
metallic soaps are obtained, which, 
melted in oils or wax, impart brilliant 
colorings to them; but colored water- 
proof and weather-resisting varnishes 
may also be produced with them. Me- 
tallic rosin soaps may be produced by 
double decomposition of potash rosin 
soaps and a soluble metal salt. From 
these, good varnishes are obtained to 
render paper carriage covers, etc., water- 
proof; they may also be employed for 
floor wax or lacauers. 



wax or lacquers. 
Petroleum Soap. — 

I- — Beeswax, refined. 
Alcohol, 



Castile soap, finely 



4 parts 

5 parts 



TJ grated 10 parts 

1 etroleum 5 parts 

Put the petroleum into a suitable 
vessel along with the wax and alcohol 
and cautiously heat on the water bath, 
jgjr an . occasional agitation, until com- 
y .e solution is effected. Arid the 



v.hm in!- / — - ----- * sufficient 

quantity of alkali to form a soap, d ur in„ 
which process they absorb oxygen anl 
unite with the alkali to form fattv 



'", effe cted. Add the soap 
solved? ™* th - heat Until ** is dis " 



leuia, 
~ aent 
nag 

unite with the aiKali to form fatty ac ;j 
salts. The resulting soap is dissolved 
in water containing alkali, and the sol u . 
tion is heated along with alkali and salt" 
The mass of soap separates out in three 
layers, the central one being the purest- 
and from this product the fatty acids 
may be recovered by treatment with 
sulphuric acid. 

Perfumes for Soap. — From 1 to 2 ounces 
of the following mixtures are to be used 
to 10 pounds ot soap: 

I. — Oil of rose geranium 2 ounces 

Oil of patchouli | on rice 

Oil of cloves I ounce 

Oil of lavender 

flowers 1 ounce 

Oil of bergamot. . . . i ounce 
Oil of sandalwood. , 1 ounce 

II. — Oil of bergamot. ... 2 ounces 

Oil of orange flow- 
ers 2 ounces 

Oil of sassafras 2 ounces 

Oil of white thyme.. 3 ounces 

Oil of cassia 3 ounces 

Oil of cloves 3 ounces 

OF — Oil of citronella .... 1 ounce 

Oil of cloves 1 ounce 

Oil of bitter al- 
monds 2 ounces 

Pumice-Stone Soaps— These soaps arc 
always produced by the cold process, 
either from coeoanut oil alone or m con- 
junction with tallow, cotton oil, . Weacwj 
palm oil, etc. The oil is melted and UK 
fye stirred in at about 90° J.i ™f JJ 
powdered pumice stone is sifted into » 
soap and the latter is scented. Follow 
are some recipes: 

40,000 parts 
10 000 parts 



-Coeoanut oil. 

Cotton oil 

Caustic soda lye, „„ r ts 

38° Be 24,000 parts 

Ca s u o'Bc potash . lye : i>°°° p arts 

Powdered' pumice rfs 

r sto . ne -, 150 pa*? 

Cassia oil * nfi LnAs 



w r- ™~ heat until 
When this occurs remove from 



100 par? 
50 parts 
50 V* r \l 
10 pa" 8 

^iove ou .14 

TT , -l 50,000 P» rts 

11. — Coeoanut oil 3U ' 

Caustic soda lye. n(1f) parts 
40° Be 25,0uu f 



Rosemary oil. 
Lavender oil , 

Safrol 

Clove oil. 



SOAPS 



649 



Powdered pumice 

T St ° Ir'nJl" " • 250 parts 

Shaving Soaps. 

t Lpalm oil soap J P°^ ds 

1 O J of cinnamon.... 10 drachms 

Oil of caraway 2 drachms 

Oil of lavender J drachms 

Oil of thyme. ...... J drachm 

Oil of peppermint.. 45 minims 
Oil of bergamot .... 24 drachms 

Melt the soap, color if desired, and in- 
corporate the oils. 

U Alcohol ■ ounce 

Oil of bitter almonds 1} ounces 

Oil of bergamot 1 f ounce 

Oil of mace 3 drachms 

Oil of cloves Jounce 

Melt the soap with just enough water 
to convert it into a soft paste when cold; 
dissolve the oils in the alcohol, mix with 
the paste, and rub up in a mortar, or 
pass several times through a kneading 
machine. 

HI —White castile soap . . 5 parts 

Alcohol 15 parts 

Rose water 15 parts 

SOAP POWDERS. 

The raw materials of which soap pow- 
der is made are soap and soda, to which 
ingredients an addition of talcum or water 
glass can be made, if desired, these ma- 
terials proving very useful as a filling. 
An excellent soap powder has been 
made of 20 parts of crystallized soda, 5 
parts of dark-yellow soap (rosin curd), 
and 1 part of ordinary soft soap. At 
first the two last mentioned are placed in 
a. pan, then half the required quantity 
of soda is added, and the whole is treated. 
Here it must be mentioned that the dark- 
yellow curd soap, which is very rosinous, 
has to be cut in small pieces before 
Placing the quantity into the pan. The 
heating process must continue very 
slowly, and the material has to be 
t^ tc continually until the whole of 
substance has been thoroughly 
Care must be taken that the 
"ng process does not reach the boil- 
ing point. The fire underneath the pan 
must now be extinguished, and then the 
i! m ^!i m ? g half of the crystallized soda 
in j- t0 be cru *ched with the molten 
hi I nts ' until the whole substance 
a Li ; e f, me liquid. The liquefaction is 
assisted by the residual heat of the first 
XonV ™ aterial and the pan. The slow 
UUI ig facilitates the productive pro- 



the 
melted, 
heati 



cess by thickening the mass, and when 
the soda has been absorbed, the whole 
has become fairly thick. With occa- 
sional stirring of the thickened liquid the 
mass is left for a little while longer, 
and when the proper moment has arrived 
the material contained in the pan is 
spread on sheets of thin iron, and these 
are removed to a cool room, where, after 
the first cooling, they must be turned 
over by means of a shovel, and the turn- 
ing process has to be repeated at short 
intervals until the material has quite 
cooled down and the mixture is thor- 
oughly broken. The soap is now in a 
very friable condition, and the time has 
now come to make it into powder, for 
which purpose it is rubbed through the 
wire netting or the perforated sieves. 
Generally the soap is first rubbed 
through a coarse sieve, and then through 
finer ones, until it has reached the re- 
quired conditions of the powder. Some 
of the best soap powders are coarse, but 
other manufacturers making an equally 
good article prefer the finer powder, 
which requires a little more work, since 
it has to go through three sieves, whereas 
the coarse powder .can do with one or at 
most two treatments. But this is, after 
all, a matter of local requirements or per- 
sonal taste. 

The powder obtained from the above- 
mentioned ingiedients is fine and yellow 
colored, and it has all the qualities needed 
for a good sale. Instead of the dark- 
yellow soap, white stock soap can also 
be used, and this makes only a little de- 
ference in the coloring. But again white 
stock soap can be used, and the same 
color obtained by the use of palm oil, or 
other coloring ingredients, as these ma- 
terials are used for giving the toilet 
soaps their manifold different hues. 
Many makers state that tins process is 
too expensive, and not only swallows up 
all the profit, but some of the cdor m- 
terials influence the soap and not to its 

"sSFKp is used only to make the 
powder softer and easier soluble, and or 
thi Treason the quantity to be used varies 
flittie* and di#™t man^artur^be- 
lieve to have a secret by adding ditte^ 



650 

, ™= M to become discolored 
in bags or cases to oe tQ th 

and US ttn" s g vel T parts of bard and 
proportion as give £ produced 

1 part of sof t °aPj J £ d £ ble and 
"^^poi^Ts^f special importance, 



SOAPS 



a s 

as on 



ll P Wg laundrL and institutions 

moist as the paper otherwise will fall 
tTptccs. Tli?s P spoils the »PPJ»»g 
of the package, and likely a part ot tne 
qulnUty ma| be lost, When the pow- 
Her is too moist or absorbs easily external 
moisture, the paper packages swell very 
easily and burst open. 

The best filling material to be em- 
ployed when it is desired to produce a 
cheaper article is talcum, and m most 
cases this is preferred to water glass. 
The superiority of the former over the 
latter is that water glass hardens the 
powder, and this is sometimes' done to 
such an extent, when a large quantity of 
filling material is needed, that it becomes 
very difficult to rub the soap through the 
sieves. In case this difficulty arises, 
only one thing can be done to lighten the 
task, and that is to powderize the soap 
when the mixed materials are still warm, 
and this facilitates the work very much. 
It is self-evident that friction under these 
conditions leaves a quantity of the soap 
powder material on the sieves, and this 
cannot be lost. Generally it is scraped 
together and returned to the pan to be 
included in the next batch, when it is 
worked up, and so becomes useful, a need 
which does not arise when talcum has 
been used as a filling material. Again, 
the soap powder made with the addition 
of water glass is not so soluble, and at 
the same time much denser than when 
the preparation has been made without 
tins material. It is thus that the purchaser 
receives by equal weight a smaller-looking 
quantity, and as the eye has generally a 
great influence when the consumer deter- 
mines a purchase, the small-sized parcels 
w ill mpress him unfavorably. This second 
of soap powder is made of the same 
ad g rli + r« eiltS t a l tlle other ' ex «:pt that an 
mad, a ? f ^ b ? ut 6 Parts of talcum is 

mater^^ 1 ?, st rred U P witL the other 
material after all the soda has been dis- 



Some makers cheapen +V,„ 

prod. 



solved. 

ucts also by reducing the quantify d " 
hard soap from 5 to 3 parts and u> Dt 
avoid the filling; the same quantih I 
soda is used m all cases. On the Z 
principle a better quality is m a dl ai ? e 
altering the proportions of soda a 3 
soap the other way. Experiments 
soon show which proportions are m 
suitable for the purpose. m ^ 

So-called ammonia - turpentine so 
powder has been made by enriching ^ 
of turpentine and ammonia with th 
materials just about the time before l\ 
whole is taken out of the heating p an 6 
Some of the powder is also scented, and 
the perfume is added at the same' time 
and not before. _ In most of the latter 
cases mirbane oil is used for the p Ur . 
pose. 

These powders are adaptable to hard 
water, as their excess of alkali neu- 
tralizes the lime that they contain: 

I. — Curd (hard) soap, 

powdered i parts 

Sat soda 3 parts 

Silicate of soda 2 parts 

Make a 3 dry as possible, and mix 
intimately. 

Boras Soap Powder. — 

II, — Curd (hard) soap, in 

powder 5 parts 

Soda ash 3 parts 

Silicate of soda 2 parts 

Borax (crude) 1 P art 

Each ingredient is thoroughly dried, 
and all mixed together by sieving. 

London Soap Powder.— 

III.— Yellow soap 6 parts 

Soda crystals S par 

Pearl ash U P^.t 

Sulphate of soda 1* 

Palm oil A F 



TOILET SOAPS. , . 

The question as to the 
toilet soaps has a high - w ™p|e»o«> 
significance. Impurity ot w ^ are 
and morbid anomalies ot tne - . uC , 
produced by the use of P^V^icuil? 
suitable soaps. The latter, cW£ d ^ 
regarded, are salts of fatty acids ^ ^ 
prepared from fats and a V^s 9e | s»j 
substances being mixed w * ^ g us£ 
brought to a boil, soda ve 
m the preparation ot toiiej t Ji* 
boiling together a fat- and 
former is resolved into i» - ne . x " 
parts, a fatty acid and glj ce 



..„„ w ; t li the soda lye, forming a 
cid U Tvh is regarded as soap. By the 
n of sSdlum chloride, this (the 
add Ti S separated and , swims on he 
s08 -? 1 liauid as "kern," or granulated 
' esldua Good soaps were formerly made 
S °? P ', m animal fats, but some of the 
° n Vi^oiX fats have been found to 
V f ge make e«3ent soap. Among them 
aIs °u m ^ cacao butter. 
th % \ 1 hygienic standpoint it must be 
Fr Td as aTaw that a good toilet soap 
aCC f fon atn no free" 5 (uncombined) 
Th every particle of it must be 
a J,icnUv bound up with fatty acid to 
tfKo" a s aft, and the resultant 
n "hould be neutral in reaction. 

SKy of the soa P 3 f °n nd - in c , orame f" 
to day contain free alkali and exert a 
harmful effect upon the skin of those 
who use them. Such soaps may readily 
be detected by bringing them into , con- 
tact with the tongue If free alkali 
be present it will make itself known 
by causing a burning sensation—some- 
thing that a good toilet soap should 

never do. , 

The efficiency of soap depends upon 
the fact that in the presence of an 
abundance of water the saponified tat is 
decomposed into acid and basic salts, in 
which the impurities of the skin are dis- 
solved and are washed away by the 
further application of water. Good soap 
exerts its effects on the outer layer of the 
skin, the so-called horny (epithelial) 
layer, which in soapy water swells up and 
is, in fact, partially dissolved in the 
medium and washed away. This fact, 
however, is unimportant, since the super- 
ficial skin cells are reproduced with 
extraordinary rapidity and ease. When 
a soap contains or carries free alkali, the 
caustic effects of the latter are carried 
further and deeper, reaching below the 
epithelial cells and attacking the true 
skin, in which it causes minute rifts and 
splits and renders it sore and painful. 
Good soap, on the contrary, makes the 
skin smooth and soft. 

Since the employment of poor soaps 
works so injuriously upon the skin, many 
persons never, or rarely ever, use soap, 
but wash the face in water alone, or with 
a "We almond bran added. Their skins 
cannot bear the regular application of 
Poor soap. This, however, applies only to 
Popr, free-alkali containing soaps. Any 
Kin can bear without injury any amount 
i a good toilet soap, free from uncom- 
K? * kali and other impurities. The 
onl °. f , was hing the face with water 

teiljJ"} Ut the use of soa P' must lye 
saraed as one altogether bad, since 



the deposits on the skin, mostly dust- 
particles and dead epithelial cells, ming- 
ling with the oily or greasy matter exuded 
from the fat glands of the skin — ex- 
cellent nutrient media for colonies of 
bacteria — cannot be got rid of by water 
alone. Rubbing only forces the mass 
into the openings in the skin (the sweat 
glands, fat glands, etc.), and stops them 
up. In this way are produced the so- 
called "black heads" and other spots and 
blotches on the skin usually referred to 
by the uneducated, or partially educated, 
as "parasites." The complexion is in 
this manner injured quite as much by 
the failure to use good soap as by the 
use of a poor or bad article. 

All of the skin troubles referred to may 
be totally avoided by the daily use of a 
neutral, alkali-free soap, and the com- 
plexion thus kept fresh and pure. Com- 
pletely neutral soaps, however, are more 
difficult to manufacture — requiring more 
skill and care than those in whnh no 
attention is paid to excess of alkali — ■ 
and consequently cost more than the 
general public are accustomed, or, in 
fact, care to pay for soaps. "While this 
is true, one must not judge the quality 
of a soap by the price demanded for 
it. Some of the manufacturers of mis- 
erable soaps charge the public some of 
the most outrageous prices. JNeither 
can a soap be judged by its odor or 
its style of package and putting on the 
market ^ ^ ^ agreeable odor the 

manufacturers add to it, just when it 
commences to cool off, an etheric oil 
(such as attar of rose, oil of violets, 
berganiot oil, etc.),. or some balsamic 
material (such as tincture of benzoin, 
for instance) . It should be known how- 
ever that while grateful to the olfactory 
nerves these substances do not add one 
par icte to the value of the soap, either 
L a detergent or as a preserver of the 

S %llTI^rXl to the skin are 
are designated 2 ^ v oided, 



soaps," and, as a class > ^ ~ ~ their 
if for no other reason, on f co ™ of 
ack cf true S ^ P iS bf reearded as a 
th ? Se - TSLifiS under g fhe laws re- 

health. 



652 



SOAPS 



LET SOAPo. wejght 

■i 30 
I Cocoanut on 

Crul°tic1odaiye(38°Bei: 17J 
Pink Soap.- Parts by 



II. — Pink No. 114... . . 
Lemon oil. . . • ■ ■ 
Cedar-wood oil. - 
Citronella oil.. . ■ 
Wintergreen oil.. 

Pale -Yellow Soap. — 



weight 
10 
60 
60 
50 
15 



Parts by 
weight 

,. io 

.. 60 
.. 60 
.. 45 
.. 15 



III.— Orange No. 410 

Citronella oil 

Sassafras oil 

Lavender oil 

Wintergreen oil 

Aniseed oil ■>"■■• 

'oilet Soap Powder.— 
Marseilles soap, pow- 
dered 100 P arts 

Bran of almonds 50 parts 

Lavender oil 5 parts 

Thyme oil 3 parts 

Spike oil 2 parts 

Citronella oil 2 parts 

Joft Toilet Soaps. — Soft toilet soaps or 
creams may be prepared from fresh lard 
with a small addition of cocoanut oil and 
caustic potash solution, by the cold 
process or by boiling. For the cold 
process, 23 parts of fresh lard and 2 parts 
of Cochin cocoanut oil are warmed in a 
jacketed pan, and when the temperature 
reaches 113° F. are treated with 9 parts 
of caustic potash and 2} parts of caustic 
soda solution, both of 38° Be. strength, 
the whole being stirred until saponifica- 
tion is complete. The soap is transferred 
to a large marble mortar and pounded 
along with the following scenting ingredi- 
ents: 0.15 parts of oil of bitter almonds and 
0.02 parts of oil of geranium rose, or 0.1 
part of the latter, and 0.05 parts of lemon 
oil. The warm process is preferable, ex- 
perience having shown that boiling is 
essential to the proper saponification of 
tbe fats. In this method, 80 parts of 
lard and 20 parts of Cochin cocoanut oil 
are melted together in a large pan, 100 
parta of potash lye (20° Be.) being then 
crunched in by degrees, and the mass 
raised to boiling point. The combined 
influence of the heat and crutehing 
vapom es part of the water in the lye, 

aiTrX ^ nedl the fire Is ™*de up, and 
another 80 parts of the same potash lye 



1 

soap 



are crutched in gradually. The 
gets thicker and thicker as the water 
expelled and fina 11 y throws up " r " „ 
on the surface, indicating that it i s J~ 
ly finished. At this stage it must K 
crutched vigorously, to prevent scoJ? 
ing against the bottom of the p an an , 
the resulting more or less dark col 0ra 
tion. The evaporation period may £~ 
shortened by using only 50 to 60 parts ot 
lye at first, and fitting with ly e of 25° + 
30° strength. For working on the l ar ° 
scale iron pans heated by steam are 
used, a few makers employing s il ver . 
lined vessels, which have the advantage 
that they are not attacked by the alkali 
Tinned copper pans arc also useful. The 
process takes from 7 to 8 hours, and when 
the soap is finished it is transferred into 
stoneware vessels for storage. Clear 
vegetable oils (castor oil) may he used, 
but the soaps lack the requisite nacreous 
luster required. 

TRANSPARENT SOAPS. 

The mode of production is the same 
for all. The fats are melted together, 
sifted into a double boiler, and the lye is 
stirred in at 111° F. Cover up for an 
hour, steam being allowed to _ enter 
slowly. There is now a clear, grain-like 
soap in the kettle, into which the sugar 
solution and the alcohol are crutched, 
whereupon the kettle is covered up. If 
cuttings are to be used, they are now 
added. When same are melted, tbe 
kettle will contain a thin, clear soap, 
which is colored and scented as m 
directions, and subsequently filled into 
little iron molds and cooled. 

Rose-Glycerine Soap.— 

X. — Cochin cocoanut 

0 i] 70,000 parts 

Compressed tal- . 

low 40,000 par 

Castor oil 30,000 parts 

Caustic soda lye, . 

38° Be . • ■ ■ 79,000 part 3 
q We 54 000 part* 

Sugar a1,u r 

Dissolved in 



Water 60,000 pa** 

Ji , l 40 000 p« 
Alcohol : * u ' uv 



jarts 



o 1 



25 E> pa*? 
20 0 P 3r I s 
1,200 par 5 

so p* rt * 



Geranium 
(African) . . 
Lemon oil. . - 
Palmarosa oil 
Bergamot oil. 

Benzoin -Glycerine Soap.— 

II. — Cochin cocoanut ^ p^rts 

Compressed tal- n g par* 5 
low 31 * 



SOAPS 



653 



parts 

parts 
parts 



200 

4,200 
1,750 



parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 

parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



Castor oil ...... 35,000 

Safari: 35,000 

Dissolved in ^ ^ 

Scohoi. 35:000 

Brown, No. 120... 
powdered benzoin 

(Siam). . . 
Styrax liquid.. . 
Tincture of ben- 

Z oin.-.. 1.400 

Peru balsam <U0 

Lemon oil 200 

Clove oil ....... ■ ' u 

Sunflower-Glycerine Soap.— 

TTI — Cochin cocoanut 

XLL - Q [\ 70,000 parts 

Compressed tal- 

50,000 parts 

Castor oil 23,000 parts 

Caustic soda lye, 

39° Be 71,000 parts 

Sugar 40,000 parts 

Dissolved in 

Water 

Alcohol 

Brown, No. 55 . 
Geranium oil.. . 
Bergamot oil. . . 
Cedar-wood oil. 
Palmarosa oil. . 

Vanillin . 

Tonka tincture. 



30,000 parts 
40,000 parts 
250 parts 
720 parts 
300 parts 
120 parts 
400 parts 
10 parts 
400 parts 



MISCELLANEOUS FORMULAS: 

Szegedin Soap. — Tallow, 120 1 parts; 
palm kernel oil, 80 parts. Saponify well 
with about 200 parts of lye of 24° Be. 
and add, with constant stirring, the fol- 
lowing fillings in rotation, viz., potash 
solution, 20° Be., 150 parts, and cooling 
salt solution 20° Be., 380 parts. 

, Instrument Soap. — A soap for clean- 
ing surgical instruments, and other ar- 
ticles of polished steel, which have be- 
come specked with rust by exposure, is 
™ a de by adding precipitated chalk to a 
strong solution of cyanide of potassium 
n water, until a cream-like paste is 

infi L Add to this white castile soa P 
seoT 16 . shavin S s ' and rub the whole to- 
111 a mor tar, until thoroughly in- 
E? r ^ ed ' The article to be cleaned 
soW , rst immersed, if possible, in a 
4 w? n °J 1 P art °f cyanide of potash in 
surf, of * ater . and kept there until the 
■Wij rt . tt nd rust disappears, It 



320 pounds 

160 pounds 

56 pounds 
9 pounds 



Stain-Removing Soaps. — These are 
prepared m two ways, either by making 
a special soap, or by mixing ordinary 
soap with special detergents. A good 
recipe is as follows: 

I- — Ceylon cocoanut 
or palm seed oil 

Caustic soda lve. 
38° Be.. 

Carbonate of pot- 
ash, 20° Be 

Oil of turpentine. 

Finely powdered 

kieselguhr 280 pounds 

Brilliant green.. . . g pounds 

The oil having been fused, the dye is 
mixed with some of it and stirred into 
the contents of the pan. The kieselguhr 
is then crutched in from a sieve, then the 
lye, and then the carbonate of potash. 
These liquids are poured in in a thi 
stream. When the soap begins to 
thicken, add the turpentine, mold, an 
cover up the molds. 

II. — Rosin grain soap. 1,000 pounds 
Talc (made to a 
paste with weak 
carbo n a t e of 

potash) 100 pounds 

Oil of turpentine. 4 pounds 

Benzine. 3 pounds 

Mix the talc and soap by heat, an 
when cool enough add the turpentin. 
and benzine, and mold. 

HI.— Cocoanut oil 600 pounds 

Tallow. . . 400 pounds 

Caustic soda lye. . 500 pounds 

Fresh ox gall 200 pounds 

Oil of turpentine. 12 pounds 
Ammonia (sp. gr., 

0 91) - • < 6 pounds 

Benzine 5 pounds 

Saponify by heat, cool, add the ga 
and the volatile liquids, and mold. 

Soap Substitutes. — 

je-W 1 

Oil of turpentine.- . . 4 pounds 
IL-Aluminnmsoap.... Jj P™* 

^ lma ihouc 50 pounds 
Caoutchouc ^unds 

Sulphur...,-- 4 pounds 

Oleum succini * P ou " 



Bhonl^+u t , and rust disappe: 
taaX then be polished with th 
**** as above directed. 



e soap, 



Shampoo Soap. — 
Linseed oil 



20 
20 



parts 

Malaga olive oil *« PJjJ. 

Caustic potash J» J art 

Al c °hoi s0 ts 

Water ^ 



654 



SOAPS 



«r ™ the mixed oils on a large water 
Warm the mi «e ^ water in 

' > both to 158° 
jot solution to the 
itbring briskly. Now add 



,„th then the 
2Sher vessel, heatm 
and adding the latter 
" + 0 n while stirring „ 



omitted if 



liquid soap. 

The alcohol may be 
transparent product is immaterial. 

Sapo Durus. — 
7m- „ ™1 . . 100 P arts 

g^^:^v.is. joJ-g 

Alcohol (90 per cent) . 30 parts 
Heat on a steam bath until .saponifica- 
tion is complete. The soap thus formed 
\ s di solvetl in 300 parts of hot distilled 
water and salted out by adding a filtered 



38° 



*1 



Sut oilh parts o .sodium chloride 
ind 5 parts of crystallized sodium car- 
)onate in 80 parts of water. 
Sapo Mollis. — 

Olive oil..... 100 parts 

Solid potassium hy- 
droxide 21 parts 

Water 100 parts 

Alcohol (90 per cent) . 20 parts 
Boil by means of a steam bath until 
the oil is saponified, adding, if necessary, 
a little more spirit to assist the saponifica- 
tion. 

Sand Soap. — Cocoa oil, 24 parts; soda 
lye, 38° Be., IS parts; sand, finely sifted, 
28 parts; cassia oil, .0100 parts; sassafras 
oil, .0100 parts. 

Salicylic Soap. — When salicylic acid is 
used in soap it decomposes, as a rule, and 
an alkali salicylate is formed which the 
skin does not absorb. A German chemist 
claims to have overcome this defect by 
thoroughly eliminating all water from 
potash or soda soap, then mixing it with 
vaseline, heating the mixture, and incor- 
porating free salicylic acid with the re- 
sulting mass. The absence of moisture 
prevents any decomposition of the sali- 
cylic acid. 

Olein Soap Substitute, — Fish oil or 
other animal oil is stirred up with sul- 
phuric acid, and then treated with water. 
After another stirring, the whole is left 
to settle, and separate into layers, where- 
upon the acid and water are drawn off, 
and caustic soda solution is stirred in 
with the oil. The finishing stage con- 
sists in stirring in refined mineral oil, 



magnesium chloride, borium chloride 
and pure seal or whale od, m succession' 
Mottled Soap.— Tallow 30 part 
palm kernel oil, 270 parts; l ye , 20°, 3471 
parts; potassium chloride solution go 0 * 
hh parts. After everything has'bt*' 
boiled into a soap, crutch the following 
dye solution into it; Water, 5$ p art ° 
blue, red, or black, .0315 parts; Wat** 
glass, 3S°, 10 parts; and lye, 
parts. 

Laundry Soap. — A good, common 
hard soap may be made from clean tal- 
low or lard and caustic soda, without any 
very special skill in manipulation. The 
caustic soda indicated is a crude article 
which may now be obtained from whole- 
sale druggists in quantities to suit, at a 
very moderate price. A lye of average 
strength is made by dissolving it in water 
in the proportion of about 2 pounds to 
the gallon. For the saponification of 
lara, a given quantity of the grease is 
melted at a low heat, and J its weight of 
lye is then added in small portions with 
constant stirring; when incorporation 
has been thoroughly effected, another 
portion of lye equal to the first is added, 
as before, and the mixture kept at a 
gentle heat until saponification appears 
to be complete. If the soap does not 
readily separate from the liquid, more 
lye should be added, the soap being in- 
soluble in strong lye. When separation 



has occurred, pour off the lye, add wrtej 
to tha mass, heat until dissolved, and 



again separate by the use of more strong 
lye or a strong solution of common salt. 
The latter part of the process is designed 
to purify the soap and may be omitted 
where only a cruder article is require". 
The soap is finally remclted on a water 
bath, kept at a gentle heat until as 
water as ^possible is expelled and then 
poured into frames or molds to set- 



Dog Soap. — 

Petroleum 

Wax 

Alcohol 

Good laundry soap. 



0 Parts 

it b ? 
0 weight 
15; , 

Heat the petroleum, wax, »»« ^ e( j, 
on a water bath until they are ^en cut 



and dissolve in the mixture 



the soaP 



be n>e 



d on 



in fine shavings. This may - ^ ia . 
man or beast for driving away * ^ u ;_ 
Liquid Tar Soap (Sapo Ficis 

dU3) ^ 3 or } parts 

Wood tar .; V " 75 parts 

Hebra's soap spirit. . • '>> ** ^ 

Ox-Gall Soap for Cleansifl^^ a 
Stuffs.— To wash fine silk slutts. 



SOAPS— SOLDERS 



655 



n(]s r ibhons, etc., employ a soap 

P iece - g w a certain amount of ox gall, 
Containing a t s BSed f or t h e 

a product tha ■ th;s soap the fol- 

P ur P° directions will be found of ad- 
Heat 1 pound of cocoanut oil 



vaatag 



copper kettle. While 



v inn° F in a copper " 
to 100 ■ ' rn „dv add * pound of caustic 
stirring vigorousl^aao g F ^ & seDarat e 



m" Baume. In a separate 

80 iW* Pound of white Venice tur- 
vessel ueai j f . g in the 



and stir this in the soap m the 
pcui ine, an Cover the kettle well, 

r/St it "tand, -ildly warmed^ for k 4 
hours, 



I- it stanu» , 

when the temperature can be 
n raised until the mass is quite hot 
2d flows clear; then add the pound of 
Jm to it Now pulverize some good, 
OI fitlv drv grain soap, and stir in as 
£ f it asiill make the contents of 
S! copper kettle so hard that it will yield 
Ky to the pressure of the fingers. 
From 1 to 2 pounds is all the gram soap 
reauired for the above quantity of gall 
soan When cooled, cut out the _ soap 
and* shape into bars, This is an indis- 
pensable adjunct to the dyer and cleaner, 
as it will not injure the most delicate color. 



SOAP-BUBBLE LIQUIDS. 

I, — White hard soap. . . 25 parts 

Glycerine 15 parts 

Water 1,000 parts 

II. — Dry castile soap. . . 2 parts 

Glycerine 30 parts 

Water 40 parts 

"SOAP FLAKES" : 

Flaked soap 9 parts 

Borax 1 part 

To "flake" the soap, take hard, dry 
Cakes of white soap and run them over 
an inverted plane, such as used by car- 
penters. 

SOLIUM HYPOSULPHITE: 

oee Photography. 

SODIUM SILICATE AS A CEMENT: 

oee Adhesives, under Water-Glass 
dements. 

SODIUM SALTS, EFFERVESCENT : 

=>ee Salts. 

Solders 

S0 P J R?SS G 0F METALS AND THE 
REPARATION OF SOLDERS. 

PariwH^, 1 of s °ldering is to unite two 
°ns ot the same metal or of different 



metals by means of a more fusible metal 
or metallic alloy, applied when melted, 
and known by the name of solder. As 
the strength of the soldering depends on 
the nature of the solder used, the degree 
of strength required for the joint must 
be kept in view in choosing a solder. 
The parts to be joined must be free from 
oxide and thoroughly clean; this can be 
secured by filing, scouring, scraping, or 
pickling with acids. The edges must 
fit exactly, and be heated to the melting 
point of the solder. The latter must 
have a lower melting point than either 
of the portions of metal that require to 
be joined, and if possible only those 
metals should be chosen for solder which 
form alloys with thein. The solder 
should also as far as possible have the 
same color and approximately the same 
strength as the article whose edges are to 
be united. 

To remove the layers of oxide which 
form during the process of soldering, 
various so-called "fluxes" are employed. 
These fluxes are melted and applied to 
the joint, and act partly by keeping off 
the air, thus preventing oxidation, and 
partly by reducing and dissolving the 
oxides themselves. The choice of a flux 
depends on the quantity of heat required 
for soldering. d 
Solders are classed as soft and hard 
solders. Soft solders, also called tin 
solders or white solders, consist of soft, 
readily fusible metals or alloys, and do 
not possess much strength; they are easy 
to handle on account of their great 
fusibility. Tin, lead-tin, and alloys i of 
tin, lead, and bismuth are used for soft 
solders, pure tin being employed only for 
articles made of the same metal (pure 

tlD The addition of some lead makes the 
solder less f usible but cheaper, while that 
of bTsmuth lowers the melting point. 
Soft adders are used for soldering easdv 
^usib e metals such as Britannia metal 
also for soldering tin plate, lo 
solder, the metals are melted 



etc* 

an ™*™l\ d - 0 JXl, the "soldering iron 
required for solder g &s f 

iroT Nidation' as po»ibl«. «<* ^ 
Sied should be tinned . over 
To make ^called^ bicker ^ 




Tnis mixture can, however, 




SOLDERS 



656 

COP ;? v Pives Z its heat to the solder 
ThelolS If X iron must be "tinaed." 
To do Si, properly, the Iron shou d be 
£ t- A hnt enough easily to melt ine 
JoTder the po^t fhould tfien be quickly 
dressed wit? a smooth flat file to remove 
tt Side, and rubbed on a piece of tin 
through solder and sal ammoniac. The 
atter & causes the solder to adhere m a 
thin even coat to the point of the iron, 
A eas or gasoline blow torch or a char- 
cofl furnfee is best for heating be iron, 
but a good, clean coal fire, well coked, 
•will answer the purpose. 

When in use, the iron should be hot 
enough to melt the so der readily. A 
cold iron produces rough work inis is 
where the beginner usually fails. It pos- 
sible, it is well to warm the pieces 
before applying the iron, I he iron 
must not be heated too hot, however, or 
the tin on the point will be oxidized. 
The surfaces to be soldered must be 
clean. Polish them with sandpaper, 
emery cloth, a file, or a scrapei\ Grease 
or oil will prevent solder from sticking. 

Some good soldering fluid should be 
used. A very good fluid is made by dis- 
solving granulated zinc in muriatic acid. 
Dissolve as much zinc as possible in the 
acid. The gas given off will explode if 
ignited. To granulate the zinc, melt it 
in a ladle, and pour it slowly into a barrel 
of water. A brush or swab should be 
used to spread the fluid on the surfaces 
to be soldered. If the point of the solder- 
ing iron becomes dirty, it should be 
wiped on a cloth or piece of waste that 
has been dampened with the soldering 
fluid. 

Soldering of Metallic Articles. — In a 
recently invented process the parts to be 
united are covered, on the surfaces not 
to be soldered, with a protective mass, 
which prevents an immediate contact of 
the solder with the surfaces in question, 
and must be brushed off only after the 
soldered pieces have cooled perfectly, 
whereby the possibility of a change of 
position of these pieces seems precluded. 

hor the execution of this process the 
objects to be soldered, after the surfaces 
to be united have been provided with a 
water-glass solution as the soldering agent 
and placed together as closely as possible 
or united by wires or rivets, arc coated in 
the places where no solder is desired with 
a protective mass, consisting essentially 



of carbon (graphite, coke, or charcoab 
powdered talc or asbestos, ferric hydra* 
(with or without ferrous hydrate), 
if desired, a little aluminum oxide t^' 
gether with a bin dine agent of the'eu, 
tomary kind (glue solution, beer). 

Following are some examples of ft 
composition of these preparations; 6 

I. — Graphite, 50 parts; powdered coke 
5 parts; powdered charcoal, 5 parts; p 0w ' 
dered talc, 10 parts; glue solution, 2 5 
parts; drop beer, 2.5 parts; ferric hydrate 
10 parts; aluminum oxide, 5 parts. ' 

II. — Graphite, burnt, 4 parts; graphite 
unburnt, 6 parts; powdered charcoal, 3 
parts; powdered asbestos, 1 part; ferric 
hydrate, 3 parts; ferrous hydrate, 2 
parts; glue solution, 1 part. 

The article thus prepared is plunged, 
after the drying of the protective layer 
applied, in the metal bath serving as 
solder (molten brass, copper, etc.), and 
left to remain therein until the part to 
be soldered has become red hot, which 
generally requires about 50 to 60 
seconds, according to the size of the ob- 
ject. In order to avoid, in introducing 
the article into the metal bath, the 
scattering of the molten metal, it is well 
previously to warm the article and to dip 
it warm. After withdrawal from the 
metal bath the soldered articles are al- 
lowed to cool, and are cleaned with wire 
brushes, so as to cause the bright surfaces 
to reappear. 

The process is especially useful for 
uniting iron or steel parts, such as 
machinery, arms, and bicycle parts in a 
durable manner. 

Soldering Acid. — A very satisfactory 
soldering acid may be made by the usee 
the ordinary soldering acid for the base 
and introducing a certain proportion v 
chloride of tin and sal ammoniac, x 
gives an acid which is superior m ew* 
way to the old form. To make 1 ga» £ 
of this soldering fluid take 3 quarts ^ 
common muriatic acid and f^ 0X V u p, 
dissolve as much zinc as it will ta 
This method, of course, is the usual 
followed in the manufacture ol ° rc " ^f] 
soldering acid. The acid, us J _ 

an eai he 
may " e 



known, "must be placed in 
ware or glass vessel. The 
sheet clippings or common !p |ate t} F . lC id 
broken into small pieces. ™ aCe {n 9 &.W 
the vessel and add the zinc i ^ 
rtions so as to prevent the Wfl j iaS 



in 

porti 
boiling 



Pi 
When 



all the 



been added and the action has v $. 
indicates that enough has been u ^ ercJ s 
Care must be taken to see tftai otbe r- 
a little zinc left in the bottom. ^ 



■ 



SOLDERS 



657 



• the acid will be in excess. The 
wise ■ tn have the acid take up as much 
idea is l y 1 

^ItSASs'has been done there will 
A ■ 0 ninp residue in the form of a 
rem am some a This Js t h e lead which 
black prec'P ^ 0 - d wh ; ch is not dis . 

S SS by £ Muriatic acid. This lead 

SOl v he removed by filtering through a 
may be re q£ ^ & 

S Absorbent cotton, or the. so lution 
„ v be flowed to remain overnight until 
£ flead "has settled and the clear solu- 
tion can then be poured off 1 Ins lead 

iVnitate is not particularly injurious 
Bering fluid, but it is better to 
* et rid of it so that a good, clear solution 
nSv be obtained. Next, dissolve 6 
ounces of sal ammoniac m a pint of 
warm water. In another pint dissolve 
[ounces of chloride of tin. The cblonde. 
of tin solution will usually be cloudy, but 
this will not matter. Now mix the 3 
solutions together. The solution will 
be slightly cloudy when the 3 have been 
mixed, and the addition of a few drops 
of muriatic acid will render it perfectly 
clear. Do not add any more acid than 
is necessary to do this, as the solution 
would then contain too much of this 
ingredienL and the results would be in- 
jurious. 

This soldering acid will not spatter 
when the iron is applied to it. It has 
also been found that a poorer grade of 
solder may be used with it than with 
the usual soldering acid. 

ALUMINUM SOLDERS. 

To solder aluminum it is necessary 
previously to tin the parts to be soldered. 
This tinning is done with the iron, using 
a composition of aluminum and tin. 
Replace the ordinary soldering iron by 
an iron of pure aluminum. Prepara- 
tion of aluminum solder: Commence by 
fusing the copper; then add the alumi- 
num m several installments, stir the mix- 
ture well with a piece of iron; next add 
«je zinc and a little tallow or benzine at 
tie same time. Once the zinc is added 
not heat too strongly, to avoid the 
volatmzation of the zinc. 

a1 }"~7 Ta ke 5 parts of tin and 1 part of 
X 1 " 11 "}. Solder with the iron or 
in „ e P low pipe, according to the article 
m question. 

he^tiVT^^ Pieces to be soldered are to 

allovs n o G f V- Ut k 8tea ? of usin S P ure tin ' 
-i- J - yi with other metals are em- 

preferably those of tin and 



parts of aluminum afford a good alloy 
malleable enough to be hammered, cut, 
or turned. If they are not to be worked, 
the alloy requires less aluminum and 
may be applied in the usual manner as in 
soldering iron. 

Aluminum Bronze. — I. — Strong solder*. 
Gold, 89 parts; fine silver, 5 parts; cop- 
per, 6 parts. 

II. — Medium solder: Gold, 54 parts; 
fine silver, 27 parts; copper, 19 parts. 

_ III. — Weak solder: Gold, 14 parts- 
silver, 57 parts; copper, 15 parts; brass, 
14 parts. 

BRASS SOLDERS. 

Brass solder consists of brass fusible 
at a low temperature, and is made by 
melting together copper and zinc, the 
latter being in excess. A small quantity 
of tin is often added to render the solder 
more fusible. Hard solders are usualh 
sold in the form of granules. Althougl 
many workers in metals make their owi 
solder, it is advisable to use hard soldei 
made in factories, as complete uni- 
formity of quality is more easily securer 1 
where large quantities are manufacturer* 
In making hard solder the melte< 
metal is poured through birch twigs ii 
order to granulate it. The granules are 
afterwards sorted by passing thei 
through sieves. 

When brass articles are soft-soldere< 
the white color of the solder contrasts 
unpleasantly with the brass. If this - 
obfected to, the soldered part can 
colored yellow in the following mamiei 
Dissolve 10 parts of copper sulphat 
in 35 parts of water; apply the solution t 
the solder, and stir with a clean iroi 
wire. This gives the part the appeal 
ance of copper. To produce the yelloi 
color, paint the part with, a mixture 
consisting of 1 part of a solution of equ* 
parts of zinc and water (1 part each) n 
2 marts of a solution of 10 to 35 part 
respectively of copper sulphate .and wate 

anA rub on with a ^F^-^S^h 
ing yellow color can, if desired, be n 
Droved by careful polishing. . 
P The auality of soft solder is always 
iudged in the trade from the *PP«»«* 
of X surface of the casting , and ii t « 
considered impoj .ant that tbu w 
should be rad ai it an ° £ ™J xlies , 
showing the so-called A™*™; th( f du] 
should %e more bn Wt : U>«tne 

background, the latter Tf b t ? e n | a "ting he 



-For articles to be worked 
efing, 45 parts of tin and 10 



058 



SOLDERS 



♦ w alloy should be remelted and tin 
laded solder too poor m tin being ex- 



j,dded, 

tre £o£ varieties of brass use 



the arts are composed of 
per cent copper and from 
^nt zinc. Furthermore 
° Tbrass which conlnm 



kinds 
40 



1 in 

from 68 to 70 
32 to 30 per 
there are some 
from 24 



?S£bLce of the alloy to «onr,,r. 
Consequently, the more crystalli 
the structure become. For hard 
£j only alloys can be employed which 
\ a A TJJ*} rf.l R . contain no more than ft 



The greater the 



an 



34 

increase m 



as a general rule, contai 

ftSfows^e in the melting 
pK o ^ the brass. An alloy containing 
go per cent of copper will meet at 1,940 
F • SO per cent copper, at l,»o3 J- ■ > 
per cent copper, at 1,796° F. ; 60 per cent 
Copper, at 1,742° F. Because an increase 
in zinc causes a change m color, it is 
sometimes advisable to use tin for zinc, 
at least in part, so that the alloy becomes 
more bronze-like in its properties. Ihe 
durability of the solder is riot seriously 
affected, but its fusibility is lowered. It 
more than a certain proportion ot tin be 
added, thin and very fluid solders are 
obtained of grayish-white color, and very 
brittle— indeed, so brittle that the solder- 
ing joints are apt to open if the object is 
beat. Because too great an addition of 
tin is injurious, the utmost caution must 
be exercised. If very refractory melals 
are to be soldered, brass alone can be 
used. In some cases, a solder can be 
produced merely by melting brass and 
adding copper. The following hard 
solders have been practically tested and 
found of value. 

YELLOW HARD SOLDERS: 
Applebaum's Compositions. — 
I. — Copper....... 58 parts 

Zinc 43 parts 

II. — Sheet brass. . . 85.42 parts 
Zinc. 13.. 58 parts 

Karrnarsch's Composition. — 



III. — Brass 7 

Zinc , , 1 

IV. — Zinc 49 

Copper 44 

Tin..... 4 

Lead 2 

PrechtPa Composition. — ■ 

V. — Copper 53.3 

Zinc 43 l 

Tin i.3 

Lead 0.3 

All these hard-solder 



parts 

part 

parts 

parts 

parts 

parts 



have the fine yellow color of brass, aTe 
very hard, and can be fused only at high 
temperatures. Ihey are well adapted 
for all kinds of iron, steel, copper, and 
bronze. 

Solders which fuse at somewhat lower 
temperatures and, therefore, well adapted 
for the working of brass, are the foll Qw . 
ing: 

VI. — Sheet brass. .. 81.12 parts 
Zinc 18.88 parts 

yXi. — Copper 54.08 parts 

Zinc 45.29 parts 

VIII. — Brass 3 to 4 parts 

Zinc 1 part 

A solder which is valuable because it 
can be wrought with the hammer, rolled 
out, or drawn into wire, and because it 
is tough and ductile, is the following: 

IX. — Brass 78.26 parts 

Zinc 17.41 parts 

Silver 4.33 parts 

Fusible White Solder.— 

X. — Copper 57.4 parts 

Zinc 28 parts 

Tin 14-6 parts 

Easily Fusible Solders.— 

XI.— Brass. 5 parts 

Zinc 2.5 parts 

XII.— Brass 5 parts 

Zinc 5 parts 

Semi-White Hard Solders.— 
XIH— Copper 53.3 parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
compositions 



Zinc. 

XIV.— Brass. 

Zinc. . 



XV.- 



XVI. 



46.7 

12 
4 to 

Tin 1 

-Brass 22 

Zinc 10 

Tin 1 



parts 

parts 
7 parts 
part 

parts 
parts 
part 

parts 
parts 



Copper 44 

Zinc 49 

'Yin 3.20 parts 

Lead -. L£0 P» r * 

XIII and XVI are fa«<7 



Formulas 
fusible. 

White Hard Solders. — 

XVII.— Brass 20 

Zinc 1 

Tin... 4 

XVIIL— Copper 5S 

Zinc 17 

Tin 15 

XIX.— Brass H 

Zinc 1 

Tin 2 



parts 
part 
parts 

parts 
parts 
part 9 

part 5 

part 

parts 



Y*— Brass. « P ar * 3 

% Zinc 4 P arts 

r j>j n 10 parts 

_ T Tormer 57.44 parts 

XX Zinc - 27.98 parts 

,pj n 14. 5S parts 

v ot Brass Tubes.— L— Copper, 100 
. j ea d 5 25 parts. 
P tt La very strong solder for soldering 
t I tubes to be drawn, etc., is com- 
S of IS Parts brass, 4 parts zinc, and 
1 part fine silver. 

For Fastening Brass to Tin. -To , 80 
narte of fine, reduced copper, add suffi- 
P - n?«ilohuric acid to make a stiff paste. 
SS ^ add % parts of metallic mercury, 
W work in, at the same time applying 
beat until the mass assumes a wax-like 
consistency. Warm or heat the plates to 
£ united, to about the same tempera- 
ture, apply the mixture, hot to each, then 
press together, and let cool. 

COPPER SOLDERS. 

The copper solders which are used for 
soldering copper as well as bronze are 
mixtures of copper and lead. By in- 
creasing the quantity of lead the fusi- 
bility is increased, but the mixture de- 
parts from the color and toughness of 
copper. The most commonly employed 
copper solder is the following: 

I— Copper 5 parts 

Lead 1 part 

II. — Copper 80 parts 

Lead 15 parts 

Tin. 5 parts 

For Red Copper, — I. — Copper, 3 parts; 
zinc, 1 part. 

, H. — Copper, 7 parts; zinc, 3 parts; 
tin, 2 parts. 

FATS FOR SOLDERING. 

I- — Soldering fat or grease is com- 
monly a mixture of rosin and tallow with 
the addition of a small quantity of sal 

ammoniac Ti : - j— J 

the sold 



It is particularly adapted to 
the soldering of tinned ware, because it is 
easily wiped off the surface after the 
Joint is made, whereas if rosin were 
used alone, the scraping away might 
remove some of the tin and spoil the 
object. 

^■~The following is a well-tried 
nf Pe « ■ a sol dering grease: In a pot 
i sufficient size and over a slow fire 
uieit together 500 parts of olive oil and 
2sn Parts of tallow; then stir in slowly 
XP , .? f rosin in powder, and let the 
U0le hod up once. Now let it cool 



down, and add 1S5 parts of saturated 
solution of sal ammoniac, stirring the 
while. When cold, this preparation will 
be ready for use. 

FLUIDS FOR SOLDERING. 

I- — To the ordinary zinc chloride, 
prepared by digesting chips of zinc in 
strong hydrochloric acid to saturation, 
add $ spirits of sal ammoniac and 4 part 
rain water,_ and filter the mixture. This 
soldering liquid is especially adapted to 
the soft soldering of iron and steel, be- 
cause it does not make rust spots. 

To solder zinc, the zinc chloride may 
be used without any spirit sal ammoniac. 

II. — Mix phosphoric acid with strong 
spirits of wine in the following propor- 
tions: 

Phosphoric acid solu- 
tion 1 quart 

Spirits of wine (80 per 

cent) 1| quarts 

More or less of the spirits of wine 
used depending upon the concentratio 
of the phosphoric acid^ solution. Whe 
this soldering liquid is applied to th 
metal to be soldered, the phosphoric aci 
immediately dissolves the oxide. Th 
hot soldering iron vaporizes the spirits o 
wine very quickly and causes the oxid 
released by the phosphoric acid to for 
a {dazed mass with the surplus phosphon 
acid, which mass can be easily removed 

HI. — Dissolve in hydrochloric aci 
Zinc, 50 parts (by weight); sal a 
moniac, 50 parts. 

IV —Hydrochloric acid, 600 parts (b 
weight); sal ammoniac, 100 parts, r 
Tin! chips into the acid to »tu«ta° 
next add the sal ammoniac. Filt 
when dissolved and preserve in flasks. 
■ V —Eight hundred parts of water wi 
100 part 8 of lactic acid and 100 parts 
glycerine. This dispenses with the U 
of chloride of zinc. 

ing water and put » 

XL-Chloride sine J — 

Alcohol 



aionia soap is recorn^ fin 
obtained by ^. m ££™ ammonia, so 



660 

• m *ins on the soldered place after 
r0Sm 'ffiX This soldering process 
? he adapted for soldering together 
15 We J wires P for electrical conduits, since 
S^t the'same time serves as an 

insulator. 

FLUXES FOR SOLDERING. 

rpi.fi fluxes generally used m the soft- 
soldering of metals are powdered rosm 
fi^Kion of chloride of zin c, a£- o 

combined with sal ammo h nia "Vedred by 
soldering liquid can be prepared^ by 
mixing 27 parts neutral 
11 parts sal ammoniac, 
water; or, 1 part sugar of milk, 1 part 



SOLDERS 



zinc chloride, 
and 62 parts 



^lvccrine, and 8 parts water. 
g y A sofdering fat for tin-plate, preferab U 
to ordbary rosin, as it can be more easil) 
Smo«d after soldering, is prepared as 
STnwJ* One hundred and fifty parts beef 



to ordinary* rosfn, as it can be more easily 

". aftc ' ! " "" 
follows: One .. . 
tallow 250 parts rosm, and 15U paris 
olive oil arc melted together in a crucible 
and well stirred, 50 parts pojdered sal 
ammoniac dissolved in as little water as 
possible being added. t 

Soldering fat for iron is composed ot 
50 parts olive oil and 50 parts powdered 
sal ammoniac. Soldering fat for al- 
uminum is made by melting together 
equal parts of, rosin and tallow, half the 
quantity of zinc chloride being added to 
the mixture. 

Soldering paste consists of neutral 
soldering liquid thickened with starch 
paste. This paste must be applied more 
lightly than the soldering liquid. 

Soldering salt is prepared by mixing 
equal parts of neutral zinc chloride, free 
from iron, and powdered sal ammoniac. 
When required for use, 1 part of the salt 
should be dissolved in 3 or 4 parts water. 

Borax is the flux most frequently used 
for hard-soldering; it should be applied 
to the soldering seam either dry or stirred 
to a paste with water. It is advisable 
to use calcined borax, i. e., borax from 
which the water of crystallization has 
been driven out by heat, as it does not 
become so inflated as ordinary borax. 
Borax dissolves the metallic oxides form- 
ing cm the joint. 

Finely powdered cryolite, or a mixture 
of 2 parts powdered cryolite and 1 part 
phosphoric acid, is also used for hard- 
soldering copper and copper alloys. 
t Midler's hard-soldering liquid con- 
sists of equal parts of phosphoric acid 
and alcohol (80 per cent)- 

A mixture of equal parts of cryolite 
and barium chloride is used as a flux in 
Hard- soldering aluminum bronze. 

very good dry-soldering preparation 
consists of two vials, one of which is filled 



with zinc chloride, and the other wi+v 
ammonium chloride. To use, di SSo t 
a little of each salt in water, ap p l v ,? e 
ammonium chloride to the object to V 
soldered and heat the latter urit ;j £ 
begins to give off vapor of ammonium 
then apply the other, and immediate]; 
thereafter the solder, maintaining \d 
heat in the meantime. This answers 
for very soft solder^ For a harder solder 
dissolve the zinc in a very small p 0F 
tion of the ammonium chloride soluti 0CL 
(from 1 to i pint). 

When steel is to be soldered on steel 
or iron on steel, it is necessary to remove 
every trace of oxide of iron between the 
surfaces in contact. Melt in an earthen 
vessel: Borax, 3 parts; colophony, o 
"parts; pulverized glass, 3 parts; steel 
filings, 2 parts; carbonate of potash, I 
part; hard soap, powdered, 1 part. Plow 
the melted mass on a cold plate of sheet 
iron, and after cooling break up the 
pieces and pulverize them. This powder 
is thrown on the surfaces a few minutes 
before the pieces to be soldered are 
brought together. The borax and glass 
contained in the composition dissolve, 
and consequently liquefy all of the im- 
purities, which, if they were shut up 
between the pieces soldered, might form 
scales, at times dangerous, or interfering 
with the resistance of the piece. 

To prepare rosin for soldering bright 
tin, mix ^ h pounds of olive oil, U pounds 
of tallow," and 12 ounces of pulverized 
rosin, and let them boil up. When this 
mixture has become cool, add If pints 
of water saturated with pulverized sal 
ammoniac, stirring constantly 

GAS SOLDERING. 

The soldering of small metallic articles 
where the production is a wholesale out, 
is almost exclusively done by the use 
gas, a pointed flame being produce* w 
air pressure. The air pressure is « 
tained by the workman who d0< * ^ 
soldering setting in motion a ilh i, e r 
with his foot, which, resting on ruo^ 
bellows, drives by pressure on ™j[ oWS . 
the aspirated air into Wind » jDg 
From here it is sent into the so ^ 
pipe, where it is connected witn i 
and a pointed flame is prod"**^^ 
order to obtain a rather unUo ^ I , u alb. 
the workman has to tread co . l *T Qst jfr 
which, however, renders it a J \^ eT ed 
possible to hold the article to ne s ^ t j, e 
steady, although this is necessa r 'g en ce, 
work is to proceed quickly- haH^ 3 
absolutely skillful and expensive js 
/horn the empWJ ' t6 



are required, on w 
often entirely dependent. 



SOLDERS 



. ■ m rtbod of soldering and obviate its 
tfais w*. t , soldering may be con- 

dra r H with good success in the following 
ducted flub product i on 0 f t h e air 

I0anne t r a small ventilator is set up. The 
Ci;rr J ft, conducted through two main con- 
to the work tables. Four or six 
usmav for instance, be placed to- 
tft E the wind and the gas pipe end- 
K 5 'the center. The gas is admitted 
S formerly, the wind as conducted into 
Snd bellows by means of joint and hose 
to obtain a constant pressure and from 
hire into the soldering pipe. In this 
manner any desired flame may be pro- 
Sliced the workman operates quietly 
and without exertion, which admits of 
amdoyin* youthful hands and consequently 
of a saving in wages. The equipment is 
considerably cheaper, since the rubber 
bellows under the treadle are done away 
with. 

GERMAN-SILVER SOLDERS. 

Because of its peculiar composition 
German-silver solder is related to the 
ordinary hard solders. Just as hard 
solders may be regarded as varieties of 
brass to which zinc has been added, 
German-silver solders may be regarded 
as German silver to which zinc has been 
added. The German-silver solder be- 
comes more easily fused with an increase 
in zinc, and vice versa. If the quantity 
of zinc be increased beyond a certain 
proportion, the resultant solder becomes 
too brittle. German-silver solders are 
characterized by remarkable strength, 
and are therefore used not only in sol- 
dering German silver, but in many cases 
where special strength is required. As 
German silver can be made of the color 
of steel, it is frequently used for solder- 
ing fine steel articles. 

Solder for ordinary German silver can 
De made of 1,000 parts German-silver 
chips, 125 parts sheet-brass chips, 142 
zinc, and 33 parts tin; or, of 8 
German silver and 2 to 3 parts 



661 



parts 
parts 
zinc. 



Soft German-Silver Solder. — 

I— Copper 4.5 parts 

SfP? 7 parts 

Nlc kel 1 part 

H.— Copper 35 parts 

56.5 parts 

Nlc ^el S.5 parts 

L— German silver 5 parts 

« Zmc 5 parts 

go^^o^ lions I and II have analo- 

Germ n r ° P -, rtles - ln composition III 
taan is to be considered as a 



mixture of copper, zinc, and nickel, for 
which reason it is necessary to know the 
exact composition of the German silver 
to be used. Otherwise it is advisable 
to experiment first with small quantities 
in order to ascertain how much zinc is to 
be added. The proper proportion of 
German silver to zinc is reached when 
the mixture reveals a brilliancy and 
condition which renders it possible to 
barely pulverize it while hot. A small 
quantity when brought in contact with 
the soldering iron should just fuse. 

Hard German-Silver or Steel Solder. — 

I. — Copper 35 parts 

Zinc 56.5 parts 

Nickel 9.5 parts 

II. — Copper 38 parts 

Zinc 50 parts 

Nickel 12 parts 

Composition I requires a fairly high 
temperature in order to be melted. 
Composition II requires a blow pipe. 

GOLD SOLDERS: 

Hard Solder for Gold— The hard 
solder or gold solder which the jeweler 
frequently requires for the execution of 
various works, not only serves for solder- 
ing gold ware, but is also often employed 
for soldering fine steel goods, such as 
spectacles, etc. Fine gold is only used 
for soldering articles ot platinum. Th 
stronger the alloy of the gold, the more 
fusible must be the solder. Generally 
the gold solder is a composition of gold, 
silver, and copper. If it is to be very 
easily fusible, a little zinc may be added, 
but, on the other hand, even the copper 
is sometimes left out and a mixture con- 
sisting only of gold and silver (e. g., equal 
parts of both) is used. The shade of th 
solder also requires attention, which 
must be regulated by varying proportions 
of silver and copper, so that it may be a 
nearly as possible the same as that of th 
gold to be soldered. 

T For 24-carat gold: Twenty-two 

parts gold (24 carat), 2 parts silver, an 



1 part copper; 



refractory. 



IL— For 18-carat gold: Nine parts gol 
(18 carat), 2 parts silver, and 1 par 
copper; refractory. 

r For 16-carat gold: Twenty-four 
parts gold (16 carat), 10 parts silver, an 
8 parts copper; refractory. 

IV -For 14-carat go d: Three par 
.old [ (14 carat), 2 parts silver, and 1 par 
more fusible- 



copper; 



V — Gold solder for alloys contain^ 
smliler quantities of gold is compp.ee 



SOLDERS 



id 5.5 



carat), 5 
easily fusible 



of 8 parts gold, 10.5 parts silver 
parts copper, or, . 

VI— Ten parts gold (13-5 
parts silver, and 1 part zinc 

V tt _The following e 

mS'is used for ordinary gold articles, 
solder is ui>eu i silver, 1 part 

^ Pft 2d g l°iit Article, soldered 

C °-Fffhi solder cannot be subjected to 
u ual Process of coloring the gold, a, 
Z JolderVould become black. 

VIII. — A refractory enamel solder for 
X mft de of gO-carat and finer gold 



^l CS c?n d beaVt~he high temperature 
Tequired in —dine, consists of 37 



the 
may 



nartrioldlnd 9 parts^silver, or 16 parts 
|Sd (18 carat), 3 parts silver, and 1 part 

COp vV?hich of these compositions should 
be employed depends upon the degree 
5f t£f f Jbflity 5 the enamel to be ap- 
plied If it is very difficult of fusion 
£3y the first named can be used; other- 
wise it may happen that during the 
melting on of the enamel the soluenng 
spots Ire so strongly heated that the 
wider itself melts. For ordinary articles, 
as a rule, only readily fusible enamels 
are employed, and consequently 
readily fusible enameling solder 
here be made use of. Soldering with the 
latter is readily accomplished with the 
aid of the soldering pipe. Although the 
more hardly fusible gold solders may 
also be melted by the use of the ordinary 
soldering pipe, the employment of a special 
small blowing apparatus is recommended 
on account of the resulting ease and 
rapidity of the work. 

SOLDERS FOR GLASS. 

I. — Melt tin, and add to the melted 
mass enough copper, with constant stir- 
ring, until the melted metal consists of 
05 per cent of tin and 5 per cent of 
copper. In order to render the mixture 
more or less hard, add J to 1 per cent of 
zinc or lead. 

II. — A compound of tin (95 parts) 
and zinc (5 parts) melts at 392° F., and 
can then be firmly united to glass. An 
alloy of 90 parts of tin and 10 parts_ of 
aluminum melts at 734° F., adheres, like 
the preceding, to glass, and is equally 
brilliant. With either of these alloys 
glass may be soldered as easily as metal, 
in two ways. In one, heat the pieces of 
glass in a furnace and rub a stick of 
soldering alloy oveT their surfaces. The 
alloy will melt, and can be easily spread 
by means of a roll of paper or a slip of 
aluminum. Press the pieces firmly to- 
gether, and keep so until cool. In the 



other method a common soldering i roil 
or a rod of aluminum, is heated over a 
coal fire, a gas jet, or a flarae su Pp li ed 
by petroleum. lhe hot iron is passed 
over the alloy and then over the pieces to 
be soldered, without the use of a dis- 
solvent. Care should be taken that 
neither the soldering irons nor the glass 
be brought to a temperature above the 
melting point of the alloy, lest the latter 
should be oxidized, and prevented from 
adhering. 

HARD SOLDERS. 

Hard solders are distinguished as 
brass, German silver, copper, gold, silver, 
etc., according to the alloys used (see Brass 
Solders, Copper Solders, etc., for other 
hard solders). _ 

The designation 'hard solder" is 
used to distinguish it from the easily 
running and softer solder used by tin- 
smiths, and it applies solely to a com- 
position that will not flow under a red 
heat. For the purposes of the jeweler 
solder may be classified according to its 
composition and purpose, into gold or 
silver solder, which means a solder con- 
sisting of an alloy of gold with silver, 
copper, tin, or zinc-like metal or an 
alloy of silver with copper, tin, or zinc- 
like metal. According to the uses, the 
solder is made hard or soft; thus m gold 
solders there is added a greater amount 
of silver, whereas for silver solders there 
is added more tin or zinc-like metal. 

In the production of solder lor me 
euameler's use, that is for combining 
gold with gold, gold with silver, or gold 
with copper, which must be enameled 
afterwards, it is necessary always to Keep 
mind that no solder can be usea 
that contains any tin, 

like metals in 



in 

effectually 

zinc alloys, or tin or zinc 

ince it is these \ery 



any great quantities, sn 
metals that contribute to ™ZT~l?to 
the enamel. Yet it is not V03Sih\eW 
without such an addition entire ij, . ° ^ 
wise the solder would not How uu ^ tB fe 
melting point of the Vffi™J& to 
themselves and we should be un 
effect a union of the parts. 1 fi ; pt h e se 



fore absolutely necessary to confine 
additions to the lowest possio 



centage, so that only a trace is apP< 
Moreover, care must be taken 



per- 

ree- 
fer 



t0 "''he 

purposes no base a . ^ 
tenacity or durabUitj „ 
will be affected th«reD> ^ 
other words, it must come i r 
standard. , , , „ a „ &rf [ : 

In hard soldering with bora ^ 
several obstacles are eneounx* 



enameling 
cause the 
compound 



make the process somewha 



t diffi cult ' 



in 



SOLDERS 



668 



^ * nlare the salt forms great bubbles 
the firs* P J * - tb the soldering iron, and 
in contact the surface of the 

eas,ly f he soldered. Besides this, the 
parts to " f u [i y cleaned each time 

P aFtS to atlySg the fait. AH these dif- 
KSi2 SSit i? instead of borax we use 

? CU nniient parts, boric acid and sodium 
its component^ ^ ^ ^ solderingi , on 

carbonaie. _ hem tQ combme 

? Ctm fh a way as to produce an excellent 
fl J, free from the difficulties mentioned. 

Composition of Various Hard Solders. 
—Yellow solders for brass, bronze, cop- 
per, and iron: . . - . , 

I— Sheet-brass chips, 5 parts, and 
zinc, 3 to 5 parts, easily fusible. 

II.— Sheet brass chips, 3 parts, and 
zinc, 1 part; refractory. 

jH_Sheet-brass chips, 7 parts, and 
zinc, 1 part; very refractory and firm. 

Semi-white solders, containing tin and 
consequently harder: 

I— Sheet brass, 12 parts; zinc, 4s to 
7 parts, and tin, 1 part. 

II — Copper, 16 parts; zinc, 16 parts, 
and tin, 1 part. 

HI.— Yellow solder, 20 to 30 parts, 
and tin, 1 part. 
White solders: 

I. — Sheet brass, 20 parts; zinc, 1 part, 
and tin, 4 parts. 

II. — Copper, 3 parts; zinc, 1 part, and 
tin, 1 part. 

To Hard-Solder Parts Formerly Sol- 
dered with Tin Solder. — To repair gold 
or silver articles which have been spoiled 
with tin solder proceed as follows : Heat- 
ing the object carefully by means a of 
small spirit lamp, brush the tin off as 
niuch as possible with a chalk brush; 
Place the article in a diluted solution of 
nydrochloric acid for about 8 to 10 

re- 



hour 



.-' s , as required. If much tin re 
mams, perhaps 12 hours may be neces 
yy- Next withdraw it, rinse off and 
TJa 2 rh " eu P°n it is carefully annealed 

ci P u " c ; acid, to remove the annealing 
it ™' V h ?n the article has been dipped, 
" may be hard soldered again. 

SILVER SOLDERS. 

inedlriv°J. der is cast in the ^rm of 
thin l sh ♦ ^ re hammered or rolled into 
'"links * , F ro m these small chips or 
The rr, u* 8 , tne y are called, are cut off. 

^C2i sold r^ n als ° be p oured > 

tar.nrl ^ i 1 Y S 00, ed, into a dry iron raor- 
a P u lven Z ed while still warm. The 



solder can also be filed and the filings used 
tor soldering. b 

Silver solders are used not only for 
soldering silver objects, but also for 
soldering metals of which great resist- 
ance is expected. A distinction must be 
drawn between silver solder consisting 
either of copper and silver alone, and 
silver solder to which tin has been added. 

Very Hard Silver Solder for Fine 
Silverware. — 

I. — Copper 1 part 

Silver.. 4 parts 

Hard silver solder. 

II- — Copper 1 part 

Silver 20 parts 

Brass. . . 9 parts 

III. — Copper. 2 parts 

Silver 28 parts 

Brass 10 parts 

Soft silver solder. 

IV. — Silver 2 parts 

Brass 1 part 

V. — Silver 3 parts 

Copper 2 parts 

Zinc 1 part 

VI.— Silver 10 parts 

Brass 10 parts 

Tin 1 part 

These solders are preferably to be 
employed for the completion of work 
begun with hard silver solders, defective 
parts alone being treated. For this 
purpose it is sometimes advisable to use 
copper-silver alloys mixed with zinc, as 
for example: 

VII.— Silver 12 parts 

Copper * Parts 

Zinc 1 part 

VIII.— Silver 5 P arts 

Brass 6 parts 

Zinc 2 parts 

This last formula (VIII) is most com- 
monly used for ordinary silverware. 

Silver Solders for Soldering Iron, 
Steel, Cast Iron, and Copper.— 

L— Sfrrer j; P ar * s a 

Brass 10 P artS 

20 parts 

...... 30 parts 

10 parts 

TTT Silver 30 P artS 

1 Copper" 10 P artS 

Copper... 0.5 parts 



II.— Silver.. 
Copper. 
Zinc. . . 



Tin. 



IV- SUv- *° 

5 parts 



Brass. 
Zinc. . 



664 

if aSSloyed contains iron. Even 
ST^i^SSe amount of iron de!e- 
SiiuJy affect, the solder. 

V— Copper, 30 parts; zinc, 12.8 j 
narts; silver, 57.15 parts. 
*%I -Copper, 23.33 parts; biic, 10 
parts! silver, 66.67 parts. 

VII -Copper, 26.66 parts; zmc, 10 
parts; silver, 63.34 parts. 

VTTT Si'ver 66 parts; copper, 24 

VU j ■ 1 i n nirts This very strong 
parts, and zinc, 10 parts. -«-* u ° ¥ A , • £ 
bolder is frequently used f °^olto ^ 
silver articles, but can be 115 e * 

soldering other metals, such as brass, 
soiaeni^, band-saw blades, etc. 

copper, iron, steei 



SOLDERS 



IS-— Silver, 4 parts, and brass, 3 

^X— A very refractory silver solder, 
Which, unlike the silver solder containing 
zinc is of great ductility and does not 
break when hammered, is composed of 
S parts silver arid 1 part copper. 

Soft Silver Solders. — I- — A soft silver 
solder for resoldering parts already 
soldered is made of silver, 3 parts; cop- 
per, 2 parts, and zinc, 1 part. 

II. — Silver, 1 part, and brass, 1 part; 
or, silver, 7 parts; copper, 3 parts, and 
zinc, 2 parts. 

III. — A readily fusible silver solder for 
ordinary work: Silver, 5 parts; copper, 6 
parts, and zinc, 2 parts. 

IV. — (Soft.) Copper, 14.75 parts; 
zinc, 8.20 parts; silver, 77.05 parts. 

V. — Copper, 22.34 parts; zinc, 10.48 
parts; silver, 67.18 parts. 

VI. — Tin, 63 parts; lead, 37 parts. 

French Solders for Silver. — I.— For 
fine silver work: Fine silver, 87 parts; 
brass, 13 parts. 

II. — For work 792 fine: 
S3 parts; brass, 17 parts. 

III. — For work 712 fine: 
75 parts; brass, 25 parts. 

IV. — For work 633 fine: 
66 parts; brass, 34 parts. 

V. — For work 572 fine: 
55 parts; brass, 45 parts. 

Solder for Silversmiths, etc. — Gold, 
10 parts; silver, 55 parts; copper, 29 
parts; zinc, 6 parts. 

Hard Solder — Silver, 60 parts; bronze, 
<J9 parts; arsenic, 1 part. 

Soft Solder. — Powdered copper, 30 
parts; sulphate of zinc, 10 parts; mer- 
cury, 60 parts; sulphuric acid. Put 



Fine silver, 
Fine silver, 
Fine silver, 
Fine silver, 



the copper and the zinc sulphate i Q a 
porcelain mortar, and then the sulph Ur £ 
acid. Enough acid is required to cover 
the composition; next add the tnercurv 
while stirring constantly. When th e 
amalgamation is effected, wash several 
times with hot water to remove the acid 
then allow to cool. For use, it is suffU 
cient to heat the amalgam until it lakes 
the consistency of wax. Apply on the 
parts to be soldered and let cool. 

Solder for Silver -Plated Work.— L« 
Fine silver, 2 parts; bronze, 1 part, 

II. — Silver, 68 parts; copper, 24 parts; 
zinc, 17 parts. 

Solder for Silver Chains. — I. — Fi ne 
silver, 74 parts; copper, 24 parts; orpi- 
ment, 2 parts. 

XI. — Fine silver, 40 parts; orpiment, 
£0 parts; copper, 40 parts. 

SOFT SOLDERS: 

See also Brass Solders, Copper Solders, 
Gold Solders. 

X. — -Fifty parts bismuth, 25 parts tin, 
and 25 parts lead. This mixture meltr, 
at 392° F. 

II. Fifty parts bismuth, 30 parts lead, 

and 20 parts tin. This will melt a\ 
374° F. 

HI. The solder that is used in solder- 
ing Britannia metal and block tm pipes 
is composed of 2 parts tin and 1 part 
lead. This melts in the blow-pipe flame 
at many degrees lower temperature 
than either tin or Britannia metal, and 
is nearly of the same color Care gtf 
be taken in mixing these solders to uep 
them well stirred when pouring m 
molds. Care should also be taken fcatj* 
metal which melts at a higher temp^ 
ture be melted first and then aHowe 
cool to the melting temperature ^ 
next metal to be added and ^ 
Articles to be soldered with tnes^ 
should be joined with a blow pipe ^ 
the best results, but if a copper ^ ^ 
must be drawn out to a l° n S\ . s1 yeet 
For a flux use powdered rosin 

oil. • i»od 2i nC ' 

Tin solders for soldering lea* w heO 
tin, tin-plate, also copper ana u ^ pre - 
spccial strength is not require , 
pared as follows: . . melt' 

I. — Tin, 10 parts; lead, 4 P ar 
mg point, 356° F. tg . pjelt' 

II. — Tin, 10 parts; lead, a I 
ing point, 365° F- 

III. — Tin, 10 parts; 
melting point, 374° F. 



lead, 



6 P 3 



rtsj 



SOLDERS 



tv —Tin 10 P arts » lead > 10 part3J 
i^point, 392° F. 

v-Tin 10 P arts: lead ' 15 Part$; 

ling point, 432° F. 

iTf-Tin 10 parts; lead, 20 parts; 
melting point, 464° F. 

The last of the above mixtures is the 
cheapest, on account of the large quantity 

° f Bismuth solder or pewterer's solder 
fusiblfat a low temperature is prepared 
by melting together: 

I —Tin, 2 parts; lead, 1 part; bismuth, 
1 part; melting point, 266° F. 

II— Tin, 3 parts; lead, 4 parts; bis- 
muth, 2 parts; melting point, 297 i . ^ 

m— Tin, 2 parts; lead, 2 parts; bis- 
muth," 1 part; melting point, 320° F. 

STEEL SOLDERING. 

Dissolve scraps of cast steel in as small 
a quantity as possible of nitric acid, add 
finely pulverized borax and stir vigor- 
ously until a fluid paste is formed, then 
dilute by means of sal ammoniac and 
put in a bottle. When soldering is to 
be done, apply a thin layer of the solu- 
tion to the two parts to be soldered, and 
when these have been carried _ to or- 
dinary redness, and the mass is con- 
sequently plastic, beat lightly on the anvil 
with a flat hammer. This recipe is useful 
for cases when the steel is not to be 
soldered at an elevation of temperature 
to the bright red. 

To Solder a Piece of Hardened Steel. — 
To hard-solder a piece of hardened steel 
such as index (regulator), stop spring (in 
the part which is not elastic), click, etc., 
take a very flat charcoal if the piece is 
difficult to attach; hard-solder and as 
soon as the soldering has been done, 
plunge the piece into oil. All that re- 
mains to be done is to blue it again and 
to polish. 

Soldering Powder for Steel. — Melt in 
an earthen pot 3 parts of borax, 2 of col- 
ophony, i 0 f potassium carbonate, as 
much powdered hard soap, to which 
must be added 3 parts of finely powdered 

SuL and 2 parts of steel flings. The 
melted mass is run out upon a cold plate 

ol;ii j ■ lron ' and when ii; is completely 
]£ u ed it is broken into small bits or 
a'^'y .Powdered. To solder, it is neces- 
facL ? s P rmkle &e powder on the sur- 
. to be mined several minutes be- 



fore b 



"nging them together. 

d et ?n? eri ?e. Solution for Steel. — A sol- 
ng sol ution for steel that will not rust 



or blacken the work is made of 6 ounces 
alcohol, 2 ounces glycerine, and 1 ounce 
oxide of zinc. 

PLATINUM SOLDERS. 

There are many platinum solders in 
existence, but the main principle to be 
borne in mind in jewelry work is that 
the soldering seam should be as little 
perceptible as possible; the solder, there- 
fore, should have the same color as the 
alloy. 

I. — A platinum solder which meets 
these requirements very satisfactorily is 
composed of 9 parts gold and 1 part 
palladium; or, 8 parts gold and 2 parts 
palladium. 

II. — The following is a readily fusible 
platinum solder; Fine silver, 1.555 parts, 
and pure platinum, 0.583 parts. This 
melts easily in the ordinary draught fur- 
nace, as well as before the soldering pipe 
on a piece of charcoal. Of similar 
action is a solder of the following com- 
position, which is very useful for places 
not exposed to the view: 

III. — Fine gold, 1.555 parts; fine sil- 
ver, 0.65 parts; and pure copper, 0.324 
parts. 

SOLDER FOR IRON : 

See also under Silver Solders. 
Copper, 67 parts; zinc, 33 parts; or, 
copper, 60 paTts; zinc, 40 parts. 

TIN SOLDERS: 

see also Soft Solders. 
Gold jewelry which has been rendered 
unsightly by tin solder may be freed 
from tin entirely by dipping the article 
for a few minutes into the following 
solution and then brushing off the tin. 
Pulverize 2 parts of green vitriol and 1 
part of salt/eter andWl m a east-iron 
riot with 10 parts of water until tne 
Faier part of the latter has evaporated. 
Th S e crystals forming upon c»W 
dissolved in hydrochloric acid (S parts ol 
hydrochloric acid to 1 part of crysta s . 
if the articles in question have to be eft 
Wlf 3 water. 

The tin solder is dissolved by this solu- 
tion wHho^attacking or damaging the 
article in the least. 

VARIOUS RECIPES FOR SOLDERING: 

tratcd solution fW^g™^! an 
andappbed.to the Place^y ss rf 

iron rod or iron Wire, 




SOLDERS 



666 

the layer may ^ increased by a repeti- 
tion of the P^ess. In □ appearance of 
places thus coppe ^P jon of zinc 

vitriol, l P ai ^ ' . „ - t u „ rjiece of zinc. 
an d fiaish rubbing [With a ^ piece 
By sprinklmg on I old powder a^ 

^w^J 01 ;^ 1 ^^^ articles tbe 
deeper. In ^^J^o^r, then cov- 
places are first copperea 0 ™ > a f te r 

with a ^J^Stl^jL When 
which bronze film p rt a i e ™£ k i v to produce 
the glue s dry rub off quickly c > f 

« dfo^mitv o f thf shade is obtained. In 
s^rTb Lts 5 the Boldermg seam, e^, 
are likewise coppered m ^ the ab WH» 

fcgK SSTdbS Silver powder 
and freshly polished. 

Solder for Articles which will not Bear 
a hS Temperature.^Take powdered 
coppfr, the precipitate of a solutionof 
the sulphate by means ot zinc, andmix 
it with concentrated sulphuric acid. 
According to the degree of hardness re- 
quired, take from 20 to SO or 36 parts of 
copper. Add, while constantly shaking, 
70 parts of quicksilver, and when the 
amalgam is complete, wash with warm 
water to remove the acid; then allow it 
to cool. In 10 or \% hours tbe composi- 
tion will be hard enough to scratch tin. 
For use, warm it until it reaches the 
consistency of wax, and spread it where 
needed. When cold it will adhere with 
great tenacity. 

Soldering a Ring Containing a Jewel. 
— I. — Fill a small crucible with wet sand 
and bury the part with the jewel in the 
sand. Now solder with soft gold solder, 
holding the crucible in the hand. The 
stone will remain uninjured. 

II. — Take tissue paper, tear it into 
strips about 3 inches in width, and make 
them into ropes; wet them thoroughly 
and wrap the stone in them, passing 
around the stone and through the ring 
until the center of the latter is slightly 
more than half filled with paper, closely 
wound around. Now fix on charcoal, 
permitting the stone to protrude over the 
edge of the charcoal, and solder rapidly. 
The paper will not only protect, the stone, 
but also prevent oxidation of the portion 
of the ring which is covered. 

. Soldering without Heat. — For solder- 
ing objects without heating, take a large 
copper wire filed to a point; dip into 
soldering water and rub the parts to be 
aoldered. Then heat the copper wire 



and apply, the solder which melts ot » 
contact. It may then be applied to th e 
desired spot without heating the object 

COLD SOLDERING : 

See also Adhesives and Cements. 
For soldering articles which cannot 
stand a high temperature, the following 
process may be employed; 

I. — Take powdered copper precipi- 
tated from a solution of sulphate by 
means of zinc and mix it in a cast-iron 
or porcelain mortar with concentrated 
sulphuric acid. The number of parts of 
copper varies according to the degree of 
hardness which it is wished to obtain. 
Next add, stirring constantly, 70 parts of 
mercury, and when the amalgam is 
finished, allow to cool. At the end of 10 
to 13 hours the composition is sufficiently 
hard. For use, heat until it acquires the 
consistency of wax. Apply to the sur- 
face. When cool it will adhere with great 
tenacity. 

II. — Crush and mix 6 parts of sulphur, 
6 parts of white lead, and 1 part of 
borax. Make a rather thick cement of 
this powder by triturating it with sul- 
phuric acid. The paste is spread on the 
surfaces to be welded, and the articles 
pressed firmly together. In 6 or 7 days 
the soldering is so strong that the two 
pieces cannot be separated, even by 
striking them with a hammer. 

Cast-iron Soldering. — A new process 
consists in decarbonizing the surfaces ot 
the cast iron to be soldered, the mo ten 
hard solder being at the same time 
brought into contact with the red-hot 
metallic surfaces. The admissioi of * 
however, should be carefully gunrae 
against. First pickle the surfaces d 
pieces to be soldered, as usual, ^ ^ 
and fasten the two pieces togetner. 
place to be soldered is now covexeu 
a metallic oxygen compound i^*^ 
one of the customary fluxes an itc d 
until red hot. The preparation ^ iflt ;. 
for this purpose is a paste ^** 0 $* 
mately mingling together ciipr ^ 
and borax. The latter melts » ftS 
ing and protects the pickled su 
well as the cuprous oxide trow p UJC jfl| 
through the action of the nir- , {5 its 
the heating the cuprous oxide k.^ t i ie 
oxygen to the carbon contiii 1 ^ 
cast iron and bums it.. M« to & 
separates in fine subdivision. 1 d wK" 
hard solder to the place to be u» j^fl- 
elting forms an alloy ning irt» 



in memwt: ivu 1 
nated copper, the alloy 
the decarburized surface* oi 



SOLDERS— SPIRIT 



667 



ordering Block.— This name is given 
. .verv ^eful support for hard solder- 
* a d can be readily made. The in- 
Charcoal, asbestos, and 



gredients are. 
Slater of Pan 



These are powdered in 



pI f narts made into a thick paste with 
eq ^ P and poured into a suitable mold. 
SS'a sorfof thick plate is obtained 
Whca this mass has dried it is removed 
E£ the mold and a very thm cork 
is affixed on one surface by means 
P Ain /ue The mission of this plate 
2 to receive the points of the wire clamps 
with which the articles to be soldered are 
attached to the soldering block, the as- 
S not affording sufficient hold for 

them- 

SOLDERS FOR JEWELERS: 

See Jewelers' Formulas. 

SOLDER FROM GOLD, TO REMOVE: 

See Gold. 

SOLDERING PASTE. 

The semi-liquid mass termed solder- 
ing paste is produced by mixing zinc 
chloride solution or that of ammonia- 
ziae chloride with starch paste. _ For 
preparing this composition, ordinary 
potato starch is made with water into a 
milky liquid, the latter is heated to a boil 
with constant stirring, and enough of this 
mass, which becomes gelatinous after 
cooling, is added to the 'above-men- 
tioned solutions as to cause a liquid 
resembling thin syrup to result. The 
use of all zinc preparations for soldering 
presents the drawback that vapors of a 
strongly acid odor are generated by the 
heat of the soldering iron, but this evil is 
offset by the extraordinary convenience 
afforded when working with these prepar- 
ations. It is not necessary to subject 
the places to be soldered to any special 
cleaning or preparation. All that is re- 
quired is to coat them with the soldering 
medium, to apply the solder to the seam, 
«c., and to wipe the places with a sponge 
oi moistened rag after the solder ha3 
Sm ce the solder adheres readily 
™ the use of these substances, a skillful 
workman can soon reach such perfection 
««« he has no, or very little, subsequent 
Polishing to do on the soldering seams. 

Soft Soldering Paste.— Small articles 
to^u mct ^ ls that woul d be very delicate 
wW Wlth a stick of solder > especially 
Par r , fit into another and only 
SEL a H tle solder to hold them to- 
S n C f n h ^ be i oi ned with a solder- 
BotdJ. { „ Thls Paste contains the 
apo£«f ♦ Ux combined, and is easily 
Hpiiea to seams, or a little applied be- 



fore the parts are put together. The 
soldering flame will cause the tin in the 
paste to amalgamate quickly. The 
paste is made out of starch paste mixed 
with a solution of chloride of tin to the 
consistency of syrup. 

SOOT REMOVERS. 

To clean out stovepipes and furnace 
flues of an accumulation of soot without 
trouble or muss, is entirely possible by 
the use of common materials. Metallic 
zinc is one of these soot-removing agents, 
and it can he used in any form, such as 
old tops from fruit jars, old washboard 
coverings, dry-cell cases, and the like. In 
the case of the last-named, a particularly 
pleasing effect is obtained when an old 
dry cell is dropped into the flames of an 
open fire, which produces a delightful 
play of colored light. A handful or two 
of salt thrown into the furnace is also 
good for removing accumulations of soot. 

SPECULUM METAL: 

See Alloys. 

SPICES, ADULTERATED: 

See Foods. 

SPICES FOR FLAVORING: 

See Condiments. 

Spirit 

INDUSTRIAL AND POTABLE ALCO- 
HOL: SOURCES AND MANUFAC- 
TURE. 

Abstract of a Farmer^ Bulletin prepared 
for the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture by Dr. Harvey W. Wiley. 

The term "industrial alcohol," or 
spirit, is used for brevity, and also be- 
cause it differentiates sharply between 
alcohol used for beverages or for medi- 
cine and alcohol used for technical pur- 

as here used and as generally - used 
means that particular product which is 
obtained by the fermentation of a sugar, 
or a starch converted into sugar and 
which from a chemical point ot view, 
fa compound of the hypothetical sub- 
stance "ethyl" with water or with that 
oart of water remaining after the sepa 
ration of one of the atoms of hydrogen 
35? is a rather technical expression, but 
5 is very difficult, without using technical 
Kn LIS to give a definition of akohol 
from the chemical point of view. There 
are three elementary substances repre- 
sented in alcohol: Carbon, the chemical 
ynSl of which is C; hydrogen, symbol 



■ 



SPIRIT 



or ' u ^«« S of carbon and I 
Pr^ r of 10 hyioiTform the hypothet 
atoms ot fl y aru ^! ; tlivl » anQ " i atom of 

hydrogen tag 

^ e H m j?H Tteo ufely pu^ ethyl alcohol 

P Ur - e f H C rtMrcm "ceTof oiher volatile 
pt^e^t the ttae^of the d,- 



tillation, 
group of 



chief among which is 
alcohols to which the name 
So far as 1B- 



that 



7 U r d I turpose? P irf concerned, how- 
^"ith^ alcohol is the only com- 



Z^oi ^consequence, jnst as in 
fegard to the character of beverages the 
ethyl alcohol is the component of least 
consequence. 

Sources of Potable Alcohol. — The 
raw materials from which alcohol is 
made consist of those crops which con- 
tain sugar, starch, gum and cellulose 
(woody fiber) capable of being easily 
converted into a fermentable sugar. 
Alcohol as such is not used as a beverage. 
The alcohol occurring in distilled bever- 
ages is principally derived from Indian 
corn, rye, barley, and molasses. Alcohol 
is also produced for drinking purposes 
from fermented fruit juices such as the 
juice of grapes, apples, peaches, etc. In 
the production of alcoholic beverages a 
careful selection of the materials is re- 
quired in order that the desired character 
of drink may be secured. For instance, 
in the production of rum, the molasses 
derived from the manufacture of sugar 
from sugar cane is the principal raw 
material. In the fermentation of mo- 
lasses a particular product is formed 
which by distillation gives the alcohol 
coinpuund possessing the aroma and 
flavor of rum. In the making of brandy, 
only sound wine can be used as the raw 
material, and this sound wine, when sub- 
jected to distillation, gives a product con- 
taining the same kind of alcohol as that 
found in rum, but associated with the 
products of fermentation which give to 
the distillate a character entirely dis- 
tinct and separate from that of rum. 
Again, when barley malt or a mixture of 
barley malt and rye is properly mashed, 
fermented, and subjected to distilla- 
tion, a product is obtained which, when 
properly concentrated and aged, becomes 
potable malt or rye whisky. In a sim- 
lla* manner, if Indian corn and bar- 



ley malt are properly mashed, a 
small portion of rye, the mash fermented 
and subjected to distillation, and the 
distillate properly prepared and aged 
the product is known as Bourbon whisky' 
Thus, every kind of alcoholic beverage 
gets its real character, taste, and aroma, 
not from the alcohol which it contains 
but from the products of fermentation 
which are obtained at the same time the 
alcohol is made and which are carried 
over with the alcohol at the time of dis- 
tillation. 

Agricultural Sources of Industrial 
Alcohol. — The chief alcohol-yielding ma- 
terial produced in farm crops is starch, 
the second important material is sugar, 
and the third and least important raw 
material is cellulose, or woody fiber. 
The quantity of alcohol produced from 
cellulose is so small as to be of no im- 
portance at the present time, and there- 
fore this source of alcohol will only be 
discussed under the headings "Utiliza- 
tion of Waste Material or By-Products" 
and "Wood Pulp and Sawdust." 

Starch -Producing Plants.— Starch is a 
compound which, from the chemical 
point of view, belongs to the class known 
as carbohydrates, that is, compounds m 
which the element carbon is associated 
by a chemical union with water, btarca 
is therefore a compound made of carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen, existing m the 
proportion of 2 atoms of hydrogen to I 
atom of oxygen. Each molecule c , tar ch 
contains at least 6 atoms of carbon 10 
atoms of hydrogen, and 5 atoms o 
o.vgem The simplest 

what the chemist knows as a molecu^ 
starch, and it is very probable, that 
many, perhaps a hundred or bo« 
these molecules exist together, thepro^j 
expression for starch froin^a ci 



expression lor siaren " n w 

point of view would be ^ plants 
The principal starch-producmg 
■e the cereals, the potato, ana - j, 
potato may be classed- t 
i&aily related thereto, tue , 



are 

With the 

not botanically related * ce reais 

potato and the yam. A ' n ' ' b 0 f stanch 
rice has the largest percentage ■ ^ aS 
and oats the smallest. ia averaf 
grown for the table, has a* ^h- 
content of about 15 per ^ ;fica llv _f«J 



When a potato is grown sjjw. t8 yjS - 
the production of alcohol it cent- 
larger quantity, or nearly JJJ^ugejJ 



Cassava contains a larger p 
starch than the potato, varjH g 
to 30 per cent. »..^r c^' 

Sugar -Producing Plants. 



from 
-Sag* 



SPIRIT 



669 



While sugar is present in some 
eic- :„ a il veKe tablc growths, there are 
d tf p ants wfiich produce it in larger 
80 Allies than are required for 



.titles uum are requireu 101 im- 
needs, and this sugar is stored 
mediate nceas tg 



6 T mrt of the plant. Tw- . 
S °?l&tly known for their rich- 
namely, the sugar cane 
beet. In Louisiana the 
from 9 to 14 per 



m 

are pr ee! 
B ess in sugar, 
an d the sugar 

«or cuics contain 
sU S a , an d tropical canes contain 



cent of sugar 
a still larger amount. 
The juices of the sugE 



ar beet contain 



fromVl to 18 per cent of sugar- There 
plants which produce large 



which are less 
g purposes than 



are other t 

quantities of sugar, but 
available for sugar-makin 
those iust mentioned. Among these, the 
sorehum must be first mentioned, con- 
taining in the stalk at the time the seed is 
4ust mature and the starch hardened 
from 9 to 15 per cent of sugar. Sorghum 
seed will also yield as much alcohol as 
equal weights of Indian corn. Ihe 
juices of the stalks of Indian corn con- 
tain at the time the grain is hardening 
and for some time thereafter large quan- 
tities of sugar, varying from 8 to 15 per 
cent. 

In the case of the sorghum and the 
Indian-corn stalk a large part of the 
sugar present is not cane sugar or sucrose 
as it is commonly known, but the invert 
sugar derived therefrom. For the pur- 
poses of making alcohol the invert sugar 
is even more suitable than cane sugar. 
Many other plants contain notable 
quantities of sugar, but, with the excep- 
tion of fruits, discussed under the follow- 
ing caption, not in sufficient quantities to 
be able to compete with those just men- 
tioned for making either sugar or alcohol. 

Cane sugar is not directly susceptible 
to fermentation. Chemically considered, 
it has the formula expressed by the 
symbols: C ls H )a Ou. Wh en cane sugar 
having the above composition becomes 
l , m ' er ^d, it is due to a process known as 
hydrolysis, which consists in the molecule 
« cane sugar taking up 1 molecule of 
water and splitting off into 2 molecules 
» sugar having the same formula but 



e same formula 
... ...J chemical properties, 

nus the process may be represented as 
(1°^ C - 1I »0 11 (cane sugar) + H s O 
(KuTo^ CJ ^°« (dextrose) + C 0 H ia O„ 



anH l i" Tllese two sugars (dextrose 
^o-.ievulose) taken together are known 
ceJuu ert s , u S ar a nd are directly sus- 
**? ferm entation. All cane sugar 
asumes the form of invert sugar before 

^comes fermented. b 
i± ■ Nearly all fruit juices are 
sugar, varying in content from 5 



rich 



to 30 per cent. The sugar in fruits is 
composed of both cane sugar and its 
invert products (dextrose and levulose), 
in some fruits principally the latter. Of 
the common fruits the grape yields the 
largest percentage of sugar. The normal 
grape used for wine making contains 
from 16 to 30 per cent of sugar, the usual 
amount being about 20 per cent. Fruit 
juices are not usually employed in any 
country for making industrial alcohol, 
because of their very much greater value 
for the production of beverages. < 

Composition and Yield of Alcohol- 
Producing Crops. — The weight of alcohol 
that may be produced from a given crop 
is estimated at a little less than one-half 
of the amount of Jermentable substance 
present, it being understood that the 
fermentable substance is expressed in 
terms of sugar. Pasteur was the first to 
point out the fact that when sugar was 
fermented it yielded theoretically a little 
over one-half of its weight of alcohol. It 
must be remembered, however, that in 
the production of alcohol a process of 
hydrolysis is taking place which adds 
a certain quantity of alcohol to the 
products which are formed. For this 
reason 100 parts of sugar yield more than 
100 parts of fermentable products. The 
distribution of the weights produced, as 
theoretically calculated by Pasteur, is as 
follows: 

One hundred parts of sugar yield the 
following quantities of the products of 
fermentation: 

Alcohol 51-10 parts 

Carbonic acid 49.20 parts 

Glycerine ; ■ • • 3.40 parts 

Organic acids, chiefly 

succinic - 65 parts 

Ethers, aldehydes, fur- 
fural, fat, etc 1-80 parts 

Total weight fer- 
mentation prod- 
ucts produced. ..105.65 parts 
Artichokes.— The artichoke has been 
hiehlv recommended for the manu- 
facture of alcohol. The fermentable 
Material in the artichoke s neither starch 
nor sucar, but consists of a mixture or a 
3 of carbohydrates o winch rnnlm 
and levulin are the principal constituents. 
Whin these .carbo&ydrate matenals are 

by droli«d into Jf^^^ 0 ^. 
the production of alcohol. ArucnoKe 

or in trie spring. • « n aces 

during the winter, and in a few places 



SPIRIT 



670 

, •• I* hot weather, they form a 
m ay be kept in hot we atore d for a 

ra "" ^ rlod and still be valuable for 
fermentalion purposes indu ded 
fer Uxvder the term ungm exe TJ 
a ll the fermentable carbony berS> l7 

above data f ^^ rmatter. Theo- 
per cent of ferrneiitaD^ rf 

gtffcftUy. ^^id 1 approximately Si 
chokes *?« ld d Jjg£ X P ohol, or about 



pou 



nds of in' 



1^ gallons. 
Bananas. 



The banana is a crop 
luxurious abundance m 



in lUXUllUUa u."-- — . 

^countries ^£ 

an ^ffKaS sugar suitable 
quantities^ o£ starcn gQ tQ g5 per 



«t^ 

trows in such luxuriance it would be a 
chelp source of industrial alcohol. 

^ Manufacture , / MaZf.- 
A very important cereal m connection 
with the manufacture of alcohol is barley 
which is quite universally employed for 
making malt, the malt in its turn being 
Sed for the conversion of the starch of 
other cereals into sugar in their prepara- 
tion for fermentation. 

Malt is made by the sprouting ot 
barley at a low temperature (from oO to 
60° "P.) until the small roots are formed 
and the germ has grown to the length of 
4 an inch or more. The best malts 
are made at a low temperature requiring 
from 10 to 14 days for the growth of the 
barley. The barley is moistened and 
spread upon a floor, usually of cement, 
to the depth of 1 foot or 18 inches. As 
the barley becomes -warm by the process 
of germination, it is turned from time 
to time and the room is kept well ven- 
tilated and cool. It is better at this 
point in the manufacture of malt to keep 
the temperature below 60° F. After the 
sprouting has been continued as above 
noted for the proper length of time, the 
barley is transferred to a drier, where it 
is subjected to a low temperature at first 
and finally to a temperature not to ex- 
ceed 140° or 158° F., until all the water 
is driven off, except % or 3 per cent. 
Great care must be exercised m drying 
the barley not to raise the temperature 
too high, lest the diastase which is formed 
be deprived of its active qualities. The 
malt has a sweetish taste, the principal 
portion of the starch having been con- 
verted into sugar, which is known 
chemically as "maltose." This sugar is, 
ot course, utilized in the fermentation 
ior trie production of alcohol. Malt is 



chiefly valuaDle, however, not becau 
the amount of alcohol that mav be n r o 
duced therefrom, but from the' fact th \ 
hi quantities of about 10 per cent it; 
capable of converting the starch of ft 
whole of the un malted grains, whate Ve ! 
their origin may be, into maltose, tW 
preparing the starch for fermentation 
Barley is not itself used m this country 
as a source of industrial alcohol, but it L 
employed for producing the highesl 
grades of whisky, made of pure barley 
malt, which, after fermentation, i s dis- 
tilled in a pot still, concentrated in 
another pot still to the proper strength, 
placed in wood, and stored for a number 
of years. Barley malt is too expensive a 
source of alcohol to justify its use fop 
industrial purposes. It is, however, one 
of the cheapest and best methods of 
converting the starch of other cereals 
into sugar preparatory to fermentation. 

Barley has, in round numbers, about 
68 per cent of fermentable matter. The 
weight of a bushel of barley (48 pounds) 
multiplied by 0.68 gives 32 pounds of 
fermentable matter in a bushel of barley. 

Cassava. — Cassava is gTOwn over a 
large area of the South Atlantic and Gulf 
States of this country. Of all the sub- 
stances which have been mentioned, ex- 
cept the cereals, cassava contains the 
largest amount of alcoholic or ferment- 
able substances. The root, deprived o\ 
its outer envelope, contains a .little over 



JUIC1 tn^i"fw ' , 

30 per cent of starch, while the un 
determined matter in the analyses ■ 
principally sugar. If this be added 
he starch, it is seen that appw^W, 
35 per cent of the fresh 
able. This of course represents »^ 
high grade of cassava the or d.n«y ^ 
containing very much 'ess ie that 
matter. If, however it ' oflt 
the fermentable matter of ca >a rf 
will average S5 per cent, ^ flf 
is much greater than the ^ 0 
the potato, or even of the ^ 
and the yam- Twenty the 0 
undoubtedly a low average ^ r00 
fermentable matter. 1" ^ cent.** 
there is found nearly ? 2 prtj' 
starch and 17 per cent ot ^ l5p cr*» 
cipally sugar. Assuming f*»Vd«H *J 
of this is fermentable, and * g7 p 
to the 72 per cent, it is see va j 

cent of the dry matter of the ft v£ 
fermentable. This 
high figure, but it ooubtles / „g 
almost exactly the conditio 3 y 
exist. It would be perfectb ^ ° 
discounting any exception^ g « 0 per c 
the samples examined, tna , t0 o 
of the dry matter of the cass 



SPIRIT 



671 



ii nt being converted into alcohol, 
capable ot de b d tfi a gource 

Alcohol Xolt as valuable, pound for 

P^SS examinations, however, of ac- 
t ft ?cldi5ons show that if 5 tons per 
tua J roots are obtained it is an average 



acre of roots 
Id. In very 



many cases, where no 



y iel f?: ilp.A and where the roots are 
fert,1 n in the ordinary manner, the yield 
BJtoS tiK this, whUe with improved 
Sods of agriculture it is greater. The 
? k of X root, has very little ferment- 
S e matter in it. If the whole root be 
aDI -j or ,d the percentage of starch is 
Stn it wouldbe for the peeled root, 
f cassava yields 4 tons or 8.000 pounds, 
per acre and contains 20 per cent of fer- 
mentable matter, the total weight of 
fermentable matter is 2,000 pounds, yield- 
ing approximately 1,000 pounds of 95 
per cent alcohol, or 143 gallons of 9o per 
cent alcohol per acre. - t 

Corn {Indian Corn or Maize).— I 
crop which at the present time is the 
source of almost all of the alcohol made 
in the United States is Indian corn. _ 

The fermentable matter in Indian 
corn _that is, the part which is capable 
of being converted into alcohol — amounts 
to nearly 70 per cent of the total weight, 
since the unfermentatale cellulose and 
pentosans included in carbohydrates do 
not exceed 2 per cent. Inasmuch as a 
bushel of Indian corn weighs 56 pounds, 
the total weight of fermentable matter 
therein, in round numbers, is 39 pounds. 
The weight of the alcohol which is pro- 
duced under the best conditions is little 
less than one-half of the fermentable 
matter. Therefore the total weight of 
alcohol which would be yielded by a 
bushel of average Indian corn would be, 
round numbers, about 19 pounds. 
The weight of a gallon of 95 per cent al- 
cohol is nearly 7 pounds. Hence 1 bush- 
el of corn would produce 2.7 gallons. 

If the average price of Indian corn be 
Placed, in round numbers, at 40 cents a 
misbel, the cost of the raw material — 
t&at is, of the Indian corn — for manu- 
facturing 95 per cent industrial alcohol 
h Sj 1 15 cents a gallon. To this must 
H ac T ed the cost of manufacture, stor- 
Se, etc., which is perhaps as much more, 
~ H the estimated actual cost of in- 
ttai t alcoho1 of 95 per cent strength 
,, om Indian corn about 30 cents 
iirnfit ? n ', lf t0 tnis fa e added the 
iW ° f , manufacturer and dealer, 
appears that under the conditions cited, 
ytrial alcohol, untaxed, should be 
Si°T ab °ut 40 cents per gallon. 
^° ta£oea — The weight of a bushel of 



potatoes is 60 pounds. As the average 
amount of fermentable matter in potatoes 
grown in the United States is 20 per 
cent, the total weight of fermentable 
matter in a bushel of potatoes is 12 
pounds, which would yield approximate- 
ly 6 pounds or 3.6 quarts of alcohol. 

The quantity of starch in American- 
grown potatoes varies from 15 to 20 per 
cent. Probably 18 per cent might be 
stated as the general average of the best 
grades of potatoes. 

Under the microscope the granules of 
potato starch have a distinctive appear- 
ance. They appear as egg-shaped bodies 
on which, especially the larger ones, 
various ring-like lines are seen. With a 
modified light under certain conditions 
of observation a black cross is developed 
upon the granule. It is not difficult for 
an expert microscopist to distinguish 
potato from other forms of starch by 
this appearance. 

The potato contains very little ma- 
terial which is capable of fermentation 
aside from starch and sugars. 

Although the potato is not sweet to 
the taste in a fresh state, it contains not- 
able quantities of sugar. This sugar is 
lost whenever the potato is used for 
starch-making purposes, but is utilized 
when it is used for the manufacture of 
industrial alcohol. The percentage of 
sugar of all kinds in the potato rarely 
goes above 1 per cent. The average 
quantity is probably not far from 0.35 
per cent, including sugar, reducing 
sugar, and dextrin, all of which are 
soluble in water. In the treatment ot 
potatoes for starch making, therefore, it 
may be estimated that 0.35 per cent of fer- 
mentable matter is lost in the wash water. 

Average Composition.— The average 
composition of potatoes is : 

Water 75,00 per cent 

Starch 18.87 per cent 

Sugars and dex- 

trin 77percen 

w a t ... -OS per cent 

Cellulose.' 33 per cent 

Ash 1.00 per cent 

According to Maercker, the sugar con- 
tentTic uding all forms of sugar, vanes 
Perfectly ripe potatoes contain 
SrSy no o? <£ly a fraction, 

general!* ^ tatoes are stored 

conditions, large 
be developed, 



per - - , 

under unfavorable 



cent. 



quantities of sugar mny oe u*vc 
cent, according to conditions. 



672 



SPIRIT 



The liberal .PPU-g^^KSfrf 



a very mar 



tU ? 6 n? Though the average percentage 



Of all the common 



poi»w™. y - --- « ost yaluaoie for 



ction 

SSSe^^unds than 
0t W r hu 0 e 0t sugar PS beet S( carrots, and pars- 

^A^nSX^ew of all the data in- 
dicates that under the most favorable 
Smstances and with jgtato* , wbmh 
have been grown especially f or the P^P ose _ 
an average content of fermentable mat- 
ter of about 20 per cent may be reason-- 
ably expected. It is thus seen that 
approximately 10 pounds of industrial 
alcohol can be made from 100 pounds of 



, f 

potatoes. Yf60 pounds be taken as the 
average weight of a bushel of potatoes, 
there are found therein 12 pounds oi 
fermentable matter, from which 6 pounds 
of industrial alcohol can be produced, or 
f of a gallon. It has also been shown 
that the amount of Indian corn neces- 
sary for the production of a gallon of in- 
dustrial alcohol costs > not^ less than 15 
cents. From this it is evident that the 
potatoes for alcohol making will have to 
oe produced at a cost not to exceed 15 
cents per bushel, before they can com- 
pete with Indian corn for the manufac- 
ture of industrial alcohol. 

Rice. — Rice is not used to any great 
extent in this country for making alco- 
hol, but _ it is extensively used for this 
purpose in Japan and some other coun- 
tries, and has the largest percentage of 
fermentable matter of all the cereais. 
The percentage of fermentable matter in 
nee is nearly 78 per cent. A bushel of 
( rice weighs, unhulled, 45 pounds, hulled, 
56 pounds, and it therefore has about 34 
and 43 pounds, respectively, of ferment- 
ab e matter for the unhulled and the 
nulled rice. It is not probable that rice 
will ever be used to any extent in this 
country as a source of industrial alcohol, 
although it is used to a large extent in the 
manufacture of beverages, as for in- 
stance m beers, which are often made 
Partly of rice. 

nK?fl 6 '~ L L rf i e qualities of alcohol, 
chiefly m the form of alcoholic beverages, 
are manufactured from rye. It is, in 



connection with Indian corn, the n 
cipal source of the whiskies made hi a 
United States. _ Rye, however, is not * 
to any extent in this or other countril 
for making industrial alcohol. 

Rye contains almost as much ferm ent 
able matter as Indian corn. A bushel of 
rye weighs 56 pounds. Wheat and other 
cereals, not mentioned above, are not 
used in this country to any appreciable 
extent in the manufacture of alcohol 

Spelt. — This grain, which is botanic- 
ally a variety of wheat, more closely 
resembles barley. Under favorable eon- 
ditions as much as 73 bushels per acre 
have been reported, and analyses show 
70 per cent of_ fermentable carbohy- 
drates. The weight per bushel is about 
the same as that of oats. It would ap- 
pear that this crop might be worthy o{ 
consideration as a profitable source of 
industrial alcohol. 

Sugar Beets.— The sugar beet is often 
used directly as a source of alcohol. 
Working on a practical scale in France, 
it has been found that from 10,430 tons 
of beets there were produced 183,024 
gallons of crude alcohol of 100 percent 
strength. The beets contain 11.33 per 
cent of sugar. From 220 pounds of sugar 
15.64 gallons of alcohol were produced. 
The weight of pure alcohol obtained is a 
little less than one-half the weight of the 
dry fermentable matter calculated as 
sugar subjected to fermentation. About 
18 gallons of alcohol are produced for 
each ton of sugar beets employed. 

Sweet Potatoes.— Experiments sbow 
that as much as 11,000 pounds of sffee* 
potatoes can be grown per acre ; 
average yield of sweet potatoes of cog 
is very much less. On plots w 
no fertilizer is added the 5«W» «*£ 
8,000 pounds of sweet' potato* P*^ 
yielding in round numbers l,»uu P 
if starck The quantity of sugar ja 
8,000 pounds is about 35,0 P^' ^ds 
added to the starch, make* " Th ; s 



of fermentable matter per aC F^ u5tr jal 
will yield 1,125 pounds oi v . 
alcohol of 95 per cent strength. ^ 
proximately 160 gallons per f ' ea icr 
percentage of starch is marktc'* Bj * 
than in the white or Irish P QtaT ^ aS oh- 
cases over 20 per cent of: sta re ^ 
tained in the South Caralin ^ ; 
potatoes, and in one instance fsfarC n 
cent. As much as 2,600 poun^ 



were produced per acre. t p 0 t« 0 

In addition to starch, the ^ 
contains notable quantities ^ w u 
sometimes as high as G P° -^e^lL 
present, so that the total ^ ^ 
matter in the sweet 



SPIRIT 



673 



one 



a „t the minimum at 25 per cent, 
a at me TZZ> t potatoes weighs 

u 
ir 

ia yield, approxn 



A 

55 



P° U ^ble Sitter, or nearly 14 pounds 
mentabie , appro ximately, 7 



^d, « a little over 1 gallon of 95 per 
pounds, or » ^ fairly stated, 

«nt alcohol- 1 "J ^ ^ bushel 

l*5SS -ill yield 1 gallon of 



of sweet potatoes 

^rimttthave. shown 11,1 lh, 
*i*§SZ «# ^farch diminish* 



that 
es and the 



,»«titv of starch 
quantity increases on storing. 

SW?7 it may Ve stated that in the 
further, may j> whIch 



quan 




starch 



The total quantity of 



dated above. - 

Rentable matter however, does not 
3y change, although there is prob- 
ably a slight loss. 

Utilization of Waste Material or By- 
products. — Molasses. — The utilization 
of the waste materials from the sugar 
factories and sugar refineries for the pur- 
pose of making alcohol is a wel -es- 
tablished industry. The use of these 
sources of supply depends, of course, 
upon the cost of the molasses. When 
the sugar has been exhausted as fully as 
possible from the molasses the latter 
consists of a saccharine product, contain- 
ing a considerable quantity of unferment- 
afale carbohydrate matter, large quan- 
tities of mineral salts, and water. In 
molasses of this hind there is probably 
not more than 50 pounds of fermentable 
matter to 100 pounds of the product. 
Assuming that a gallon of such molasses 
weighs 11 pounds, it is seen that it con- 
tains 5i pounds of fermentable matter, 
yielding 2} pounds of industrial alcohol 
of 95 per cent strength. It requires 
about 3 gallons of such molasses to make 
1 gallon of industrial alcohol. 

When the price of molasses delivered to 
the refineries falls as low as 5 or 6 cents a 
gallon it may be considered a profitable 
source of alcohol. 

Wood Pulp and Sawdust. — Many at- 
i m ? ls . bave been made to produce 
alcohol for industrial purposes from 
sawdust wood pulp, or waste wood 
material. The principle of the process 
rests upoil the fact that the woody sub- 
k; TV S com POsed of cellulose and 
snared matters which, under the action 
"lute acid (preferably sulphuric or 
ur ous) an d heat, with or without 



(mute acid (preferably sulphuric or 
juiphnrous) an d heat, with or without 
cW • under Ko hydrolysis and are 
the mt ° su gars. A large part of 
fe f U Pui which is formed is non- 
rentable, consisting of a substance 



known as xylose. Another part of the 
sugar produced is dextrose, made from 
the true cellulose which the wood 
contains.^ 

The yield of alcohol in many of the 
experiments which have been made has 
not been very satisfactory. It is claimed, 
however, by some authors that paying 
quantities of alcohol are secured. In 
Simraonsen's process for the manu- 
facture of alcohol | per cent sulphuric 
acid is employed and from 4 to 5 parts 
of the liquid heated with 1 part of the 
finely comminuted wood for a quarter of 
an hour under a pressure of 9 atmos- 
pheres. It is claimed by Simmonsen 
that he obtained a yield of 6 quarts of 
alcohol from 110 pounds of air-dried 
shavings. Another process which has 
been tried in this and other countries for 
converting comminuted wood into alcohol 
is known as Classen's. The comminuted 
wood is heated for 15 minutes in a closed 
apparatus at a temperature of from 248* 
to 293° F. in the presence of sulphurous 
acid (fumes of burning sulphur) instea ' 
of sulphuric acid. It is claimed by the 
inventor that he has made as much as 1 
quarts of alcohol from 110 pounds of th 
air-dried shavings. There is reason t 
doubt the possibility of securing sue 
high yields in actual practice as are 
claimed in the above processes. Tha 
alcohol can be made from sawdust and 
wood shavings is undoubtedly true, but 
whether or not it can be made profitably 
must be determined by actual manu- 
facturing operations. m 

Waste Products of Canneries, etc.— It* 
principal waste materials winch may b 
considered in this connection are th 
refuse of wine making., fruit evaporating, 
and canning industries especially the 
waste of factories devoted to the can 
Tng of tomatoes and Indian corn. I 
addition to this, the waste fruit produc 
themselves which are not utilized at all 
«rfoHSto* the imparl ^djjtle 

apples, tomatoes, £*P%f£^X * 
-Sluan titles 

grapes and apples , as shown Dy^ rf 
are as follows. About g exC eptio 

centage "\. 25 varieties, in« 1 



eluded the waste . 
the defective In general ?t may 



SPIRIT 



• „ ™irooses about 25 per cent 
preserving P" r P? se was t e and this, it is 
5 their weight * f* the ma nu- 

faC i U [vpe of fruit we ma? assume that 
I a w Se portions contain 10 per cent of 
the wast e po xl w hich, however, is 

fermentable matters w ^ ^ 

perhap rath|r a ^ be recovered as 



established it might be profitable ta 
devote them to this purpose. 

Manufacture of Alcohol — The three 
principal steps in the manufacture of 
alcohol are (1) the preparation of th» 
m ash or wort, (2) the fermentation of tW 
mash or wort drawn off from the m as u 
tun, and (3) the distillation of the dilute 
alcohol formed m the beer or wash from 
the fermentation tanks. The prepara- 
tion of the mash includes (1) the treat- 
ment of the material used with hot water 
to form a paste of the starch or the sugar 
. and (2) the action of the malt or ferment 




Fig. 1.— MASH TUN IN AN IRISH DISTILLERY. 



render it profitable to engage in the 
manufacture. A smaller percentage could 
be expected from the waste of the to- 
mato, where the quantity of sugar is 
not so great. In the waste of the sweet- 
corn factory the amount of ferment- 
able matter would depend largely on the 
care with which the grain was removed. 
There is usually a considerable quantity 
of starchy material left on the cobs, and 
this, with the natural sugars which the 
grown cobs contain, might yield quite 
large Quantities of fermentable matter. 
It would not be profitable to erect dis- 
tilleries simply for the utilization of 
Z this knd, but if these wastes 
Hd he utilized in distilleries already 



on the paste to convert the star 
fermentable sugar. , wo 

Mashing.— Figs. 1 and 2 sflov ^ 
views of the mashing tun or x» _ » 
first figure giving the geneml *RP ior of 
and the second a view oi the b? 
the tun, showing the tb* 
which the stirring is etiecteu fioisbe d 
series of pipes for cooling tn ^era- 
product down to the PJ°P er "it. 
ture for the application oi tne w ^ re . 

The ooject of the mash ™" jn to/ 
duce the starch in the ground t te 
pasty, gummy mass, in ° rCe . „poP L 
ferment of the malt may _ ftr « 
vigorously and convert it into ■ s r^ov 
the mashing be done before « 



676 



of the malt the temperature m 
• a \r. that of bo ling water, it 



may be 
bow- 

„ , v . „,,,,<..-, mash- 
ever, the malt o 

ing begins, the 14QO p sinco 

fc fermentlrP-- is "J"?* The 
Sfhirbed at higher temperatures. J- he 
d Y n Jnt is simply a mechanical process 
Xci the starch is reduced 



SPIRIT 

entangled in the particles of the gluten 
and these expanding cau&c the 



£ TfoTm of paste and the temperature 

<mc>4 into fermenting tanks, Vrincnm 
Scotland are called "wash backs," when 
Kit is added. A vmw of typical 
wash back is shown in Fig. 3. l^y 
often have a stirring apparatus as in- 
dicated in the figure whereby the con- 
tents can be thoroughly mixed with the 
yeast and kept in motion. This, is not 
necessary after the fermentation is once 
well established, but it is advisable, 
especially in the early stages, to keep the 
yeast well distributed throughout the 
mass. In these tanks the fermentations 
are conducted, the temperature being 
varied according to the nature of the 
product to be made. For industrial 
alcohol the sole purpose should be to 
secure the largest possible percentage of 
alcohol without reference to its palatable 
properties. 

An organism belonging to the vege- 
table family and to^ which the name 
"yeast" has been given is the active 
agent in fermentation. The organism 
itself does not take a direct part in the 
process, but it secretes another ferment 
of an unorganized character known as 
an "enzym" or a "diastase." This en- 
zym has the property, under proper 
conditions of food, temperature, and 
dilution, of acting upon sugar and con- 
verting it into alcohol and carbonic acid. 
Anyone who has ever seen a fermenting 
vat in full operation and noticed the 
violent boiling or ebullition of the liquor, 
can understand how rapidly the gas 
_ carbon dioxide" or "carbonic acid," as 
it is usually called, may be formed, as it 
is the escape of this gas which gives the 
appearance to the tank of being in a 
V1 ^-u t State of ebullition. The yeast 
which produces the fermentation belongs 
to the same general family as the ordi- 
nary yeast which is used in the leavening 
ot bread. The leavening of bread under 
the action of yeast is due to the conver- 

j su ? ar in tlle d ough into 
alcohol and carbon dioxide or carbonic 
ine gas thus formed becomes 



acid. 



Whr,l_ 



ana wese cA F auu. U6 «« 5e ine w ^ 0 i 
mass to swell or rise, as it is common W 
expressed. Starch cannot be directly 
fermented, but must be first converted 
into sugar, either by the action of a 
chemical like an acid, or a ferment or 
enzym, known as diastase, which is 0 a e 
of the abundant constituents of malt 
especially of barley malt. In the p rep ! 
aration of a cereal, for instance, f or 
fermentation, it is properly softened and 
ground, and then usually heated with 
water to the boiling point or above in 
order that the starch may be diffused 
throughout the water. After cooling, it j s 
treated with barley malt, the diastase of 
which acts vigorously upon the starch, 
converting it into a form of sugar] 
namely, maltose, which , lends itself 
readily to the activities of the yeast fer- 
mentation. (Fig. 4.) 




FIG. 4. -YEAST FROM BEER SEDIMENT SHOWING 

BUDDING ( X 1270). 

When ordinary sugar (cane sugar, 
beet sugar, and sucrose) is subjected to 
fermentation it is necessary that we 
yeast, which also exerts an* 
similar to that of malt, should first » 
vert the cane sugar into invert ^su a 
(equal mixtures of dextrose and Jevi lose; 
before the alcoholic fermentation i s s« 
up. The cane sugar is also easily 
verted by heating with an acid. d 

When different kinds of sU S^ s ose0 f 
starches are fermented for the pury • 
making a beverage it is impor^" 
the temperature of fermentation i M ^ 
fully controlled, since the fburrt ^ 
.the product depends Largely _ "^ nta tioH 
temperature at which the lerD V pn in- 
takes place. On the contrary , j ^ 
dustrial alcohol is made, the s ^ 
is to get as large a yield as poss i( j 
for this reason that teinperatuic ^ 
be employed which pro d " ceS , c 'ts, jf 
alcohof and the least by-produ rf ^ 
respective of the flavor or c ™ °l 
product made. Also, in }- he ^l n t th»* 
alcoholic beverages, it is , im P™/ ua Iitf 10 
the malt be of the very best q 



SPIRIT 



6 



Aof the resulting product may 
o^er that the ^ ^ produc _ 

t ave Wcohol. for industrial purposes 
ti° n . of TWn consequence, and the sole 



»- — • * no consequ , 

this is of no d be tQ p duce the 

purpose nere For thjs reason 

f arg est l£«&/ t £ n to the use of acids 
there is »o j- sta rch, cane sugar, 

f0 ^ CO, lhdo fin o fermentable sugars. 
d cellulose im ^ ^ ma _ 

Th ^funaer P ressure g W ith dilute acids 
? ena L to procure the largest quantity 
1 iar is a P perfectly legitimate method 
° 0 \ Sdure^n the manufacture of m- 
j„ctri.al alcohols. „ 
d fu"ars and starches are usually, asso- 
■ in nature with another variety of 
S&draVes known as cellulose, and 
th s c 1 ulose itself, when acted upon by 
an acid, is converted very largely into 
"uVrs, which, on fermentation, yield 
5™hol For industrial purposes, the 
a cohol produced in tins manner is just 
as valuable as that made from sugar and 
starch Whether the diastatic method 
of converting the starch and sugar into 
fermentable sugars be used, or the acid 
method, is simply a question of economy 
and yield. On the other hand, when 
alcoholic beverages are to be made, those 
processes must be employed, irrespective 
of the magnitude of the yield, which give 
the finest and best flavors to the products. 

Distillation. — The object of distilla- 
tion is to separate the alcohol which has 
been formed from the non volatile sub- 
stances with which it is mixed. Atypical 
form of distilling apparatus for the con- 
centration of the dilute alcohol which is 
formed in the beer or wash from the fer- 
mentation tanks, is represented in Fig. 5. 

This apparatus is of the continuous 
type common to Europe and America. 
It consists of a "beer still" provided with 
a number of chambers fitted with per- 
forated plates and suitable overflow pipes. 
It is operated as follows: 
. The syrup and alcohol are pumped 
into the top of the beer still through a 
P'pe (?; the tank G may also be placed 
above the center of the still and the con- 
tents allowed to flow into the still by 
gravity; steam is admitted through an 
open p ipe into the kettle A at the bottom 
1 the column or is produced by heating 

a P e spent liquor b y means of a coil - The 

in th 1 abends through the perforations 
in Lt ? , tes > becoming richer and richer 
er v as h P asses through each lay- 
desrl T^ r ' while the latter gradually 
tot£ v?\ by me ans of the overflow pipes 
reark Do 4 t J- om °E the column B and finally 
of kettle completely exhausted 

cokol » whence it is removed by 



means of a pump connected with the 
pipe line H. On reaching the top of the 
beer still U the vapors of the alcohol and 
the steam continue to rise and pass into 
the alcohol column C. This column is 
also divided into chambers, but by solid 
instead of perforated plates, as shown at 




m ^-CONTINUOUS DISTILLING APPARATUS. 



X. Each chamber ^ P^e^ 



678 



SPIRIT — SPONGES 



. , „„ lpqg r ich in alcohol which 

KlKhyS plate separating t h e 

Sttle oS -aching the top of the col- 
umn the vapors, which have now be- 
nuite rich in alcohol, are passed 
come qu te ™ m an tlet at the 

into a eoii proviaeu will nutlets 
lowest part of each bend. These outtets 
lead into the return pipe F, whicn con 
ES, with the top chamber of the alcohol 
neets withtM ^ p ^ technicaJly termcd 

id is immersed in a tank 
tub." A suitable ar- 



alcohol (wood alcohol), pyridine, acetcwm 
methyl acetate, methyl violet, methyl^/ 



column 

the "goose 

caUed the "goose ^, H . r mi n p- 
rangement is provided for controlling 
the temperature of the water m the tub 
by means of outlet and inlet water pipes. 
When the still is in operation the temper- 
ature of the "goose" is regulated accord- 
ing to the required density of the alco- 
hol The object of the "goose" is the 
return to the' column of all low products 
which condense at a temperature be- 
low the boiling point of ethyl alcohol 
of the desired strength. On leaving the 
"goose" the vapors enter a condenser E, 
whence the liquid alcohol is conducted 
into a separator F. This separator con- 
sists simply of a glass box provided with 
a cylinder through which a current of 
alcohol is constantly flowing. An alcohol 
spindle is inserted in this cylinder and 
shows the density of the spirit at all 
times. A pipe, with a funnel-shaped 
opening at its upper extremity, connects 
with the pipe leading from the condens- 
er and gives vent to any objectionable 
fumes. The separator is connected by 
means of a pipe with the alcohol storage 
tank, The pipe 0 is for emptying the 
upper chambers when necessary. The 
valves TV, communicating by means of a 
small pipe with a condenser M, are for 
testing the vapors in the lower chambers 
for alcohol. 

Substances Used for Denaturing 
Alcohol. — The process of rendering al- 
cohol unsuitable for drinking is called 
' denaturing," and consists, essentially, in 
adding to the alcohol a substance soluble 
therein of a bad taste or odor, or both, 
ot an intensity which would render it im- 
possible or impracticable to use the mix- 
ture as a drink. Among the denaturing 

the follow- WhlCh haVC been P ro P° sed are 

S * eUac (with or without the ad- 
miS °+ \ Cam P hor ' turpentine, wood 
En C ) ' colo P h °nium, copal rosin, 
aiid <:t m P hor > turpentine, acetic 

acetic ether, ethnic ether, methyl 



blue, aniline Olue, eosra, fluorescein 
naphthalene, castor oil, benzine, earbol 
acid, caustic soda, musk, anirnal 
etc. 



oils, 



zine 



Methyl (wood) alcohol and ben. 
are the denaturing agents authorized ]r 
the United States, in the following PT J; 
portions: To 100 parts, by volume 0 f 
ethvl alcohol (not less than 90 per cent 
strength) add 10 parts of approved 
methyl (wood) alcohol and y 2 0 f l part 
of approved benzine. Such alcohol i s 
classed as completely denatured. Forrnn- 
las for special denaturation may be sub- 
mitted for approval by manufacturers 
to the Commissioner of Internal Rev- 
enue, who will determine whether they 
may be used or not, and only one spe- 
cial denaturant will be authorized for the 
same class of industries unless it shall 
be shown that there is good reason for 
additional special denaturants. Not less 
than 300 wine gallons can be withdrawn 
from a. bonded warehouse at one time 
for denaturing purposes. 

Spirit. — Proof spirit is a term used by 
the revenue department in assessing the 
tax on alcoholic liquors. It means a 
liquid in which there is 50 per cent (by 
volume) of absolute alcohol. As it is 
the actual alcohol in the whisky, brandy, 
dilute alcohol, etc., which is taxed, and as 
this varies so widely, it is necessary that 
the actual wine gallons be converted into 
proof gallons before the tax rate can be 
fixed. A sample that is half alcohol 
and half water (let us say for conven- 
ience) is 'TOO proof." A sample that is 
% alcohol and % water is 150 proof, ana 
the tax on every gallon of it is 1% tm ™ 
tha regular government rate per p r0 
gallon. Absolute alcohol is 200 V mi 
and has to pay a double tax. 

The legal definition of proof spin , 
"that alcoholic liquor which contai 
one-half its volume of alcohol ot a &p 
cific gravity of 0.7939 at 60° *- 

SPONGES: in 
Bleaching Sponges. — the 

dilute hydrochloric acid to fo r 
lime, then wash in water, and p 0 f 

10 minutes in a 2 per cent soiu 

potassium permanganate, _ i u tit>n ' 5 

color on removal from this so oll s 

due to the deposition of f s teep- 



oxide, and this may be removea w 
ing for a few minutes in very <™ ^ 
phuric acid. As soon as t 
appear white, they are W 
water to remove the acid. 



ashed 




SPONGES — STAMPING 



679 



Vol operations or for other purposes, 
furgicf 1 1 opw washed in W arm water, to 
should brst ^ QQ dropg of hq r 

every fiuart" added; afterward g 

of s .°T; n mire water, wrung or pressed 
washed in y ■ of bromme water, 

out and P Y ef 1 until bleached. Bleaching 
where it is '«i expo sing the vessel 

is accelerate^ * ater to the 



containing Wh the sponge 

^bYeSed t *2 T removed from the bro- 
is bleacne few. minutes in 

gaining soda lye. Finally 
J is insed in running water until the 
'Vl of bromine disappears. It should 
dried as rapidly as possible by hang- 
in^ it in the direct sunlight. 



Sterilization of Sponges.— I— Allow 
ae sponges to lie for 24 hours in an 8 
"r cent hydrochloric acid solution, to 
eliminate lime and coarse impurities; 
wash in clean water, and place the 
sponges in a solution of caustic potash, 
10 parts; tannin, 10 parts; and water, 
1 000 parts. After they have been sat- 
urated for 5 to 20 minutes with this 
liquid, they are washed out in steril- 
ized water or a solution of carbolic acid 
or corrosive sublimate, until they have 
entirely lost the brown coloring acquired 
by the treatment with tannin. The 
sponges thus sterilized are kept in a 2 per 
ceat or 15 per cent carbolic solution. 

Sponge Window Display. — Soak a large 
piece of coarse sponge in water, squeeze 
half dry, then sprinkle in the openings 
red clover seed, millet, barley, lawn grass, 
oats, rice, etc. Hang this in the window, 
where the sun shines a portion of the day, 
and sprinkle lightly with water daily. It 
will soon form a mass of living green 
vegetation very refreshing to the eyes. 
While the windows are kept warm this 
may be done at any season. The seeds 
used may be varied, according to fancy. 

SPONGES AS FILTERS: 

See Filters. 

SPONGE CLEANERS: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, under Miscellaneous Methods. 

SPONGE-TRICK, BURNING: 

nee Pyrotechnics. 

SPOT ERABICATORS: 

•See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods and Soaps. 

SPOT GILDING : 
See Plating. 

S^RAY SOLUTION: 

Balsams. 




SPRAY FOR HOUSE FLY: 

Eucalyptol 10 ounces 

Bergamot oil 3 ounces 

Acetic ether 10 ounces 

Cologne water 50 ounces' 

Tincture of insect powder 50 ounces 

Mix all of these ingredients well. One 
part of this mixture in 10 parts of water 
and sprayed around the room will kill 
all flies and insects. 

SPRINGS OF WATCHES: 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 

SPRUCE BEER: 

See Beverages. 

STAIN REMOVERS: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

STAINS: 

See Paints, Varnishes and Wood 
Stains. 

STAINS FOR LACQUERS: 

See Lacquers. 



Stamping 

(See also Dyes.) 

Stamping Colors for Use with Rubber 
Stamps— Blue: 0.3 parts of water-blue 
IB 1.5 parts of dextrin, 1.5 part* of dis- 
tilled water. Dissolve the amline dye 
and the dextrin in the distilled water, 
over a water bath, and add 7 parts of 
refined glycerine, 28° Be. 

Other colors may be made according 
to the same formula, substituting the 
following quantities of dyes for the 
water-blue: Methyl violet 3 B, 0.02 parts; 
diamond f uchsine I, 0.02 parts; aniline 
green D, 0.04 parts; vesuvine B, O.Uft 
farts; phenol black 0.03 parts Okag. 
nous colors are mostly used for ^teinc 
stamps, but glycerine colors can be used 
in case of necessity. 

Oleaginous Stamping .Colors -Mix OS 
parts of indigo, ground fine with 2.5 parte 
nf linseed-oil varnish, and 0.5 parts ol 
lin" Idd . part, of 
K^th"TltJuL use the following 

V rtS; Mu? P A O S p£* ^ oil-soluble 
aniline blue A, '"■i f, n „ni„ e yellow 

tlaek L, 0.6 parts. 



680 



STAMPING — STARCH 



, . f. „;,?«,,, n eo"s of benzine and with a 
of ' thfi Hquid triturate J drachm of 
Pritran blue 2nd finally mix thoroughly 

^iSlt which has been added 
* ,maT propor ion of powdered rosin, is 
gSS5ly used for stamping^embroidery 



, Herns on white goods. The powder 
E K through the perforated pattern, 
which f .then cohered with a paper and a 
hot iro passed over it to melt the rosin 
and cause the powder to adhere to the 
cloth. The following are said to be ex- 
cellent powders: 

T —White.— One part each 01 rosin, 
copal, damar, mastic, sandarac borax 
and bronze powder, and % parts white 
lead. , . 

II —Black.— Equal parts of rosin, dam- 
ar, copal, sandarac, Prussian blue, ivory 
black, and bronze powder. 

HI Blue. — Equal parts of rosin, 

damar, copal, sandarac, Prussian blue, 
ultramarine, and bronze powder. 

In all these powders the gums are brst 
to be thoroughly triturated and mixed by 
passing through a sieve, and the other 
ingredients carefully added. Other colors 
may be made by using chrome yellow, 
burnt or raw sienna, raw or burnt umber, 
Vandyke brown, etc. For stamping fab- 
rics liable to be injured by heat, the 
stamping is done by moistening a suitable 
powder with alcohol and using it like a 
stencil ink. 

Stamping Powder for Embroideries. — 
"Stamping powders" used for outlining 
embroidery patterns are made by mixing 
a little finely powdered rosin with a suit- 
able pigment. After dusting the powder 
through the perforated pattern it is fixed 
on the fabric by laying over it a piece of 
paper and then passing a hot iron care- 
fully over the paper. By this means the 
rosin is melted and the mixture adheres. 
When white goods are to be "stamped," 
ultramarine is commonly used as the 
Pigment; for dark goods, zinc white may 
be substituted. Especial care should be 
taken tc avoid lead compounds and other 
poisonous pigments, as they may do 
mischief by dusting off. On velvets or 
other materials likely to be injured by 
neat, stamping is said to be done by 
moistening a suitable powder with alco- 
u j ^ s - in S Jt as stencil paint. A 
small addition of roainous matter would 
seem required here also. 

Starch 

<J5i? Star ch.— Add to the starch a 
certain amount of logwood extract be- 



fore the starch mixture is boiled Tk 
quantity varies according to the oW 
of the black and the amount of starcl? 
A small quantity of potassium bich 
mate dissolved in hot water is used 
hade of black 
black iron li qu 
comes ready pte 



mate dissolved in not water is used t 
bring out the proper shade of black T 
place of bichromate, black iron li Qll * 
may be used, 
pared. 



Thi 



Starch Gloss. — I. — Melt %\ pounds 
of the best paraffine wax over a slow fi te 
"When liquefied remove from the fire to 
stir in 100 drops of oil_ of citronella 
Place several new pie tins on a fevei 
table, coat them slightly with sweet oil 
and pour about 6 tableapoonfuls of the 
melted paraffine wax into each tin. The 
pan may be floated in water sufficient 
to permit the mixture to be cut or 
stamped out with a tin cutter into small 
cakes about the size of a peppermint 
lozenge. Two of these cakes added to 
each pint of starch will cause the smooth- 
ing iron to impart the finest possible 
finish to muslin or linen, besides perfum- 
ing the clothes. 

II. — Gum arabic, pow- 
dered 3 parts 

Spermaceti wax .... 6 parts 
Borax, powdered. .. 4 parts 
White cornstarch ... 8 parts 
All these are to be intimately mixed in 
the powder form by sifting through a 
sieve several times. As the wax is in a 
solid form and does not readily become 
reduced to powder by pounding in a mor- 
tar, the best method of reducing it to 
such a condition is to put the wax into a 
bottle with some sulphuric or recti** 
ether and then allow the fluid to CTJ? 
orate. After it has dissolved the ^ 
as the evaporation proceeds, the * ■ 
be deposited again in the solid form, ou 
in fine thin flakes, which wiU «*J 
break down to a powder iorm ^ 
rubbed up with the other ing^ ien * in 
a cold mortar. Pack in pa per W 
cardboard boxes. To use, 4 tea ^ be 
fuls per pound of dry starcti a * ^ 
added to all dry starch, ana n ^ 
starch made in the usual waj 

starch. ., 

y. \ suit- 
Refining of Potato Star en. e fluC - 
able quantity of chloride » " #E eD 
tuating according to its quai".> ^ is 
* to 1 part per 100 parts ot ? pasie . 
made with little water into a tn --^ c0 a- 
^o this paste add gradually nt jty 
ant stirring 1 0 to 15 times tne 4 



stant stirring _ 
of water, and filter. 



The filtrate is now added to f 
stirred up with water; I P art 




STARCH— STEEL 



681 



i w,V acid of 20° Be. previously 
hydrochloric ^ the quantlty 0 f 



water ^ mixed 

chloride ot 

thorough'} , 

stand- 

When the 



in, for every part of 
lime, the whole is stored 
and the starch allowed to 



starch has settled, the 

¥V ucu -- - . let off and the starch 
supernatant J at«r^ ^ ^ 

V'torine has entirely disappeared. 
The K h now obtained is the resulting 

thfsTarch thus, treated is to be 
It tne t _ j it is treated m 



^trk add and will then furnish a dex- 
♦ ; n ncrfectlv free from taste and smell. 
tfl 7a se the starch is to be turned into 
"soluble" starch proceed as usual, in a 
simUar manner as in the production of 
dev rin, with the sing e difference that 
the s a ch treated with hydrochloric or 
nitric acid remains exposed to a temper- 
Sure of 2ir F-, only until a test with 
tincture of iodine gives a bluish-violet 
Sol The soluble starch thus pro- 
duced, which is clearly soluble m boiling 
water, is odorless and tasteless. 

Starch Powder. — Finely powdered 
starch is a very desirable absorbent, ac- 
cording to Snively, who says that for 
toilet preparations it is usually scented 
by a little otto or sachet powder, t rangi- 
pkniu powder, used in the proportion ot 
1 part to 30 of the starch, he adds, gives 
a satisfactory odor. 

STARCHES : 

See Laundry Preparations. 

STARCH IN JELLY, TESTS FOR: 

See Foods. 

STARCH PASTE: 

See Adhesives. 

STATUE CLEANING: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

STATUETTES, CLEANING- OF: 

See Plaster. 

STATUETTES OF LIPOWTTZ METAL: 

See Alloys. 

Steel 

(See also Iron and Metals.) 
ANNEALING STEEL: 
. See also Hardening Steel and Temper- 
ing Steel. B 

This work requires the use of sub- 
stances which yield their carbon readily 
and quickly to the tools on contact at 
•ugh temperature. Experience has 



shown that the best results are obtained 
by the use of yellow blood-lye salt (yel- 
low prussiate of potash), which, when 
brought in contact with the tool at a 
cherry-red heat, becomes fluid, and in 
this condition has a strong cementing 
effect. The annealing process is as fol- 
lows: The tool is heated to a cherry red 
and the blood-lye salt sprinkled over the 
surface which is to be annealed. A fine 
sieve should be used, to secure an even 
distribution of the substance. The tool 
is then put back into the fire, heated to 
the proper temperature for tempering 
and tempered. If it is desired to give " 
higher or more thorough tempering 
iron or soft steel, the annealing process 
repeated 2 or 3 times. The surface of 
the tool must, of course, be entirely free 
from scale. Small tools to which it i 
desired to impart a considerable degre 
of hardness by annealing with blood-ly* 
salt are tempered as follows: Blood-ly 
salt is melted in an iron vessel over 
moderate fire, and the tool, heated to 
brown-red heat, placed in the melte 
salt, where it is allowed to remain 
about 15 minutes. It is then heated 
the hardening temperature and hardene 
A similar but milder effect is produced 
small, thin tools by making them, r 
peatedly red hot, immersing them slowl 
in oil or grease, reheating them, an 
finally tempering them in water, lo l 
crease the effect, soot or powdered cn 
coal is added to the oil or gr ease : (tra 
oil) till a thick paste is formed, in 
which the red-hot tool is plu^d 
this means the tool is covered with a thi 
not very combustible, coating, wh 
produces a powerful cementation at 
next heating. By mixing nour yell 
blood-lyc salt, saltpeter, Vn shavin 
nr around hoofs, grease, and wax, 
naste is formed which serves the sa 
rmrnose A choice may be made of | 
& £e preparations sold as a ' harden 
™^»?thev are all more or less of 
£2 c^osition Tnis is a samp 
Melt 500 grams of wax, «0O gra 
low, 100 grams rosin, add a nn x 
leather-coal, horn shavings ana g 



for 



hie 



Is are 



then add 10 grams 
100 grains powdei 

salt, and stl '^Sie red hot," allowed 
into this paste while re ^ 

cool in it, tne . n . re ." i, lM1( i an d sometim 
More steel is injured, a. nu 
mLi Kv over-annealing tnan m «• 
spoiled, by overu ^ m 



682 

i w rherry red, and it should be a lower 
L° «t tffit is when being hardened. It 
^ i? v!p heated slowly and given a 
fetmW 6 all over and through the 

difficult to do in long bars and 



STEEL 



piece. 
This is 



S s or hardening, is in red-hot pure leao. 
Bv this method it is done uniformly, and 
jjy tnib , f me . Some 



The best way 
neal- 
lead. 
, and 

on(i n seTthe color all the time.. Some 
heatSg for annealing is done in this way : 
sfmpTy cover up the piece m sawdust, 
and let it cool there, and good results will 

be Good in scr e w threads cannot be cut in 
st eel that is too soft. Soft annealing 
produces a much greater shrinkage and 
epoils the lead of the thread. 

This mixture protects the appearance 
of polished or matted steel objects on 
heating to redness: Mix 1 part of white 
soap, 6 parts of chemically pure boracic 
acid, and 4 parts of phosphate of soda, 
after pulverizing, and make with water 
into a paste. For use, apply this to the 
article before the annealing. 

COLORING- STEEL: 

Black.— I. — Oil or wax may be em- 
ployed on hard steel tools; with both 
methods the tool loses more or less of its 
hardness and the blacking process there- 
fore is suited only for tools which are 
used for working wood or at least need 
not he very hard, at any rate not for 
tools which are employed for working 
steel or cast iron. The handsomest 
glossy black color is obtained by first 
polishing the tool neatly again after it 
has been hardened in water, next causing 
it to assume on a grate or a hot plate the 
necessary tempering color, yellow, vio- 
let blue, etc., then dipping it in molten, 
not too hot, yellow wax and burning off 
the adhering wax, after withdrawal, at 
a fire, without, however, further heating 
the tool. Finally dip the tool again into 
the wax and repeat the burning off at the 
flame until the shade is a nice lustrous 
black, whereupon the tool may be 
cooled off in water. The wax is sup- 
posed to impart greater toughness to the 
tool. It is advisable for all tools to have 
a trough of fat ready, which has been 
Heated to the necessary tempering de- 
gree, anc i tne tQols after j iardeninf! in 

water are suspended in the fat until they 
lath aC ^Vi rcd * he temperature of the fat 



, When the parts are taken out and 

mce, but not lustrous, black. 

forehi^ef o7io S n- haS **** 



part 
parts 
part 
parts 



Bismuth chloride. . . 1 
Mercury bichloride . 2 
Copper chloride. ... 1 
Hydrochloric acid . . 6 

Alcohol. 5 parts 

Water sufficient to make 64 p at t s 
Mix. As in all such processes a great 
deal depends upon having the article to 
be treated absolutely clean and free fro m 
grease. Unless this is the case uniform 
results are impossible. The liquid may 
be applied with a swab, or a brush, but 
if the object is small enough to dip im 0 
the liquid better results may thus be 
obtained than in any other way. The 
covering thus put on is said to be very 
lasting, and a sure protection against 
oxidation. 

Blue. — I. — Heat an iron bar to redness 
and lay it on a receptacle filled with 
water. On this bar place the objects to 
be blued, with the polished side up. As 
soon as the article has acquired the 
desired color cause it to fall quickly into 
the water. The pieces to be blued must 
always previously be polished with pum- 
ice stone or fine emery. 

II. — For screws: Take an old watch 
barrel and drill as many holes into the 
head of it as the number of screws to be 
blued. Fill it about one-fourth full of 
brass or iron filings, put in the head, 
and then fit a wire long enough to bead 
over for a handle, into the arbor holes- 
head of the barrel upward. Brighten 
the heads of the screws, set them, pomt 
downward, into the holes already drilled, 
and expose the bottom of the barrel to 
the lamp until the screws assume tne 
color you wish. 

III. — To blue gun-barrels, etc., dis- 
solve 2 parts of crystallized chloride of 
iron; 2 parts solid chloride of 

1 part gallic acid in 4 or 5 P^^.'SJg 
apply with a small sponge, and let urj 
the air. Repeat this two or three tigg 
then was h with water, and u^/^ 



with boiled linseed oil to deepen 
Repeat this until satisfied 



shade 
the result. 
IV.— The 



bluing of gun 



barrels 15 

_ , . 0 maw 

effected by heating evcnlj _m » , tht > 
until the desired blue color is rai . ^ 
barrel being first made clean anu . $ 0 f 
with emery cloth, leaving no tll6 
grease or dirt upon the metal ^ t0 
bluing takes place, and then '.^ble 
cool in the air. It requires «>»'• ^ 
experience to obtain an even 



Brown.— I. — The following^ 
Manual; 



llt „ « , eS 0r\ 

browning Is from the United Ot» . 1$ 
Spirits of * m 



nance 



STEEL 



683 



tincture of iron, H ounces; cor- 
ounces; t in /ft"r te U ounces; sweet 

spirits of niter t * ^ Mix and 

^ inC f 5 "i T quart of warm water and 
dissolve in * clean the barrel well 

keep m a £JJ J j a watc r to remove grease 
witb -f Then clean the surface of all 
or ° ' nd marks with emery paper or 
S tai^ and i ^ an even> bnght 

^XwSdcn plugs P Then ap- 
dventWJ tQ eyery t w , tl a 

*e or rag, and expose totheur for 



an 



pfy the mixture 

sponge or :?jf; n a ;i;;ioose""rust should be 
U A 0l A Afl Mrith a steel scratch brush. 
St mixlire and the scratch brush 
We and more if necessary, and finally 
twice, * u . ... wateri dry quickly, and 
Se with iSfeed oil or varnish with 
shellac. 

TI —Apply four coats of the following 
solution, allowing each several hours to 
dry Brush after each coat if necessary. 
After the last coat is dry, rub down hard. 



Sulphate of copper. . 
Sweet spirits of niter. 
Distilled water 



1 ounce 
1 ounce 
1 pint 

Hiello.— This is a brightly polished 
metal, which is provided with a black or 
blue-black foundation by heating, is cov- 
ered with a design by the use of a suitable 
matrix and then treated with hydro- 
chloric acid in such a manner that only 
the black ground is attacked, the metal 
underneath remaining untouched. Next, 
the acid is rinsed off and the reserve is 
removed with suitable solvents. The 
parts of the metal bared by the acid may 
also be provided with a galvanic coating 
of silver or other metal. 

Another method is to plunge the articles 
for a few minutes into a solution of ox- 
alic acid and to clean them by passing 
them through alcohol. In this way the 
polish can even be brought back with- 
out the use of rouge or diamantine. 

Whitening or Blanching. — If dissatis- 
fied with the color acquired in tempering, 
dip the article into an acid bath, which 
whitens it, after which the bluing opera- 
tion is repeated. This method is of great 
service, but it is important to remember 
always thoroughly to wash after the use 
ot acid and then allow the object to re- 
main for a few minutes in alcohol. Sul- 
Phunc acid does not whiten well, often 
l avi "K dark shades on the surface. Hy- 
^ochlonc acid gives better results. Small 
Pieces of steel are also whitened with a 
yiece of pith moistened with dilute sul- 



phuric acid, else the fine steel work, such 
as a watch hand, is fixed with lacquer on 
a plate and whitened by means of pith 
and polishing rouge, or a small stiff brush 
is charged with the same material. It is 
then detached by heating and cleaned in 
hot alcohol. 

TEMPERING STEEL. 

The best temperature at which to 
quench in the tempering of tool steel is 
the one just above the transformation 
point of the steel, and this temperature 
may be accurately determined in the fol- 
lowing manner, without the use of a 
pyrometer. The pieces of steel are in- 
troduced successively at equal intervals 
of time into a muffle heated to a temper- 
ature a little above the transformation 
point of the steel. If, after a certain 
time, the pieces be taken out in the re- 
verse order they will at first show pro- 
gressively increasing degrees of brightness, 
these pieces being at the transformation, 
point. When this point is passed the 
pieces again rapidly acquire a brightness 
superior to that of their neighbors and 
should then be immediately quenched. 

I.— Heat red hot and dip in an un- 
euent made of mercury and the fat of 
bacon. This produces a remarkable 
degree of hardness and the steel pre- 
serves its tenacity and an elasticity 
K cannot be obtained by other means 
tt _Heat to the red white and thrust 
miicklv into a stick of sealing wax. 

moisten them with essence of turpentine 
To Temper Small Coil Springy . and 
Tools.-To temper sma * ™il spr J ^ 
a furnace burning ^woocl th , spr g 
exposed to the hea * « f -fe rfKe follow- 
quenched in a ^po^ion ot of fish oil. 

?ng P^J^^xa^rtB of tallow 
10 quarts ,of ro«n and ^ d n 

are added. It trie spi b . a dded t 
this m^urebreuk. mo^' . lenea8 of 
but if the break indicates o har dnes Sj 
the steel rather than excessive 
a gall of yellow beeswax »bo ut 
in diameter is added. 1 1 ^ ^ 
drawn to a reddnd i pj > P izonta l^ 
placed on a frame bavin* 
Radiating arms like a sta ^ ^ 

JSSPS&S a^l^on the star and - 



The springs of melted lead, being 

lowered into a pot °f ™ e . g required to 



held there for such time as is requi 
raw to the 
It is well 



STEEL 



684 

* ;« soluble substances powerfully 
C ff P ? if the action of tempeifna water. 
This action^ strengthened if the heat- 
Inducting power of the water is raised 
R SSS^o? these substances; it is re- 
tarded if this power is reduced or the 
boiHng point substantially lowered The 
hstanee most frequently used tor the 
mroose of increasing the heat-conduct- 
f n J?ower of tempering water is common 
lift P This is dissolved in varying pro- 
portions of weight, a saturated solution 
& generally used as a quenching 
Sure. The use of tbis solution is 
Sways advisable when tools of eom- 
p Heated shape, for which a considerable 
Seeree of hardness is necessary, are to be 
tempered in large quantities or ^ fre- 
quent succession. In using these cooling 
fluids, care must be taken that a suffi- 
cient quantity is added to the water to 
prevent any great rise of temperature 
when the tempering process is pro- 
tracted. For this reason the Ingest 
possible vessels should be used, wide and 
shallow, rather than narrow and deep, 
vessels being selected. Carbonate of soda 
and sal ammoniac do not increase the 
tempering action to the same extent as 
common salt, and are therefore not so 
frequently employed, though they form 
excellent additions to tempering water in 
certain cases. Tools of very complicated 
construction, such as fraises, where the 
danger of fracture of superficial parts 
has always to be kept in view, can with 
advantage be tempered in a solution of 
soda or sal ammoniac. Acids increase 
the action of tempering water consider- 
ably, and to a far greater extent than 
common salt. They are added in quan- 
tities up to 2 per cent, and frequent- 
ly in combination with salts. Organ- 
ic acids (e. g., acetic or citric) have a 
milder action than mineral acids (e. g., 
hydrochloric, nitric, or sulphuric). Acid- 
ulous water is employed in tempering 
tools for which the utmost degree of 
hardness is necessary, such as instru- 
ments for cutting exceptionally hard ob- 

Ieets, or when a sufficiently hard surface 
las to be given to a kind of steel not 
capable of much hardening. Alcohol 
lowers the boiling point of water, and 
causes so vigorous an evaporation when 
the water comes in contact with the red- 
hot metal, that the tempering is greatly 
retarded (in proportion to the' amount of 
alcohol in the mixture). Water con- 
taining a large quantity of alcohol will 
not temper. Soap and soap suds will 
not temper steel; this property is made 
US u- 1 f m the ra P id eo °lirig of steel for 
which a great degree of hardness is not 



desirable. When certain parte of com 
pletely tempered steel have to be rendered 
soft, these parts are heated to a red heat 
and then cooled in soap suds. This i s 
done with the tangs of files, knives 
swords, saws, etc. Soluble organic subl 
stances retard the tempering process j n 
proportion to the quantity used, and 
thus lessen the effect of pure water. 
Such substances (e. g., milk, sour beer' 
etc.) are employed only to a limited 
extent. 

To Caseharden Locally. — In case- 
hardening certain articles it is sometimes 
necessary, or desirable, to leave spots ut 
sections m the original soft uncarbonized 
condition while the remainder is carbon- 
ized and hardened. This may be ef- 
fected by first covering the parts to be 
hardened with a protecting coat of japan, 
and allowing it to dry. Then put the 
piece in an electroplating bath and de- 
posit a heavy coat of nickel over the 
parts not protected by the japan. The 
piece thus prepared may be treated in 
the usual manner in casehardening. 
The coat of nickel prevents the metal 
beneath being carbonized, so it does not 
harden when" dipped in the bath. 

A plating of copper answers the same 
purpose as nickel and is often used. A 
simpler plan, where the shape of the 
piece permits, is to protect it from the 
action of the carbonizing material with 
an iron pipe or plate closely fitted or 
luted with clay. Another scheme is to 
machine the parts wanted soft alter 
carbonizing but before hardening. W 
this procedure the carbonized material u 
removed where the metal is desired soil, 
and when heated and dipped these parts 
do not harden. 

To Harden a Hammer .^To avoid the 
danger of "checking" a hammer at m 
eye, heat the hammer to a K? 0 " uni " r fl |[ 
hardening heat and then dip th « ssjiw 
end almost up to the eye and co 
quickly as possible by moving aD ou 
the hardening bath; then dip the : y 
To harden a hammer MCceSrf** 



end. To harden a hammer eu^-v^y 
by this method one must work 1 , tQ 
and cool the end dipped firs eimug ^ 
harden before the heat is lost °» ^ 
other end. Draw the temper tro fa ^ 
heat left about the eye. I ' ie V' id be 
hammer hard only where it si 
and free from "checks.' . 

the s* e 

Hardening Steel Wire.—Pass i to 9 
wire through a lead bath neat , t 
temperature of 1,200° to l.^ 00 . { ' a p as te 
has previously been coated , 
of chalk, so as to prevent the 



■ 



STEEL 



685 



The wire is thus heated in 
°f oXl Vrm manner and, according to 
a«Ssdesired hard or elastic, it as 
Sedia water or in od. 

■ ,< n f Serines. — A variety of 
S , ard aTDe chosen which is suitable 
?^fl£ production of springs, a very 
f0r ? rruaHty wieh about O.S per -cent of 
toU I h Teine probably the best. Any 
cart ?° nrkJ of "■ood reputation would no 
fltrccoxnme g nd a certain kind of steel. 
ftS "a spring, forging and ham- 
In 5Ko.ild be avoided if possible. In 
mering sn treatment can scarcely 

M'dJa; one portion is worked more 
fhan Se other, causing tensions which 
Sciallv in springs, must be guarded 
fSt It is most advantageous if a 
Serial of the thickness and shape of 
Se wring can be obtained which, by 
bending aid pressing through, is shaped 
iato the desired spring. Since tins also 
entails slight tension, a careful annealing 
is advisable, so as to prevent cracking or 
distorting in hardening. The annealing 
is best conducted with exclusion ot the 
air by placing the springs m a sheet-iron 
box provided with a cover, smearing all 
the joints well up with loam. 1 he heat- 
ing may be done in a muffled furnace; 
the box, with contents, is, not too slowly, 
heated to cherry red and then allowed to 
cool gradually, together with the stove. 
The springs must only be taken out 
when they have cooled off enough that 
they will give off no hissing sound when 
touched by water. In order to uniform- 
ly heat the springs for hardening, a 
muffle furnace is likewise employed, 
■wherein they are heated to cherry-red 
heat. For cooling liquid, a mixture of oil, 
tallow, and petroleum is employed. A 
mass consisting of fish oil, tallow, and 
Wax also renders good service, but one 
should see to it that there is a sufficient 
quantity of these cooling liquids, so that 
the springs may be moved about, same 
as when cooled in water, without causing 
an appreciable increase in the tempera- 
ture of the liquid. In most cases top 
small a quantity of the liquid is responsi- 
ble for the many failures in hardening. 
When the springs have cooled in the 
gardening liquid, they are taken out, 
dned off superficially, and the oil still 
adhering is burned off over a charcoal 
^ re - This enables one to moderate the 
temper according to the duration of the 



k F C1 according to the duration ot tne 
owning off and to produce the desired 
elasticity. An even heating being of 
thp i lm P°riance in hardening springs, 
oparf n" 0 curr ent has of late been suc- 
sstull y employed for this purpose. 



To Temper a Tap.— After the tap has 
been cut and finished heat it in a pair of 
tongs to a blood-red heat over a charcoal 
fire or the blue flame of a Bunsen burner 
or blow pipe, turning it around so that 
one point does not get heated before 
another. Have ready a pail of clean, 
cold water, into which a handful of com- 
mon salt has been put. _ Stir the water in 
the pail so that a whirlpool is set up. 
Then plunge the tap, point first and 
vertically, into the vortex to cool. The 
turning of the tap during heating, as well 
as the swirl of the quenching water, pre- 
vents distortion. In tempering, the tem- 

J)er of the tap requires to be drawn to a 
ight straw color, and this may be done 
as follows: Get a piece of cast-iron tube 
about 3 inches in diameter and heat it to 
a dull-red heat for about 4 inches of its 
length. Then hold the tap, with the 
tongs, up the center of the tube, mean- 
while turning the tap around until the 
straw color appears all over it. Then 
dip the tap in the water, when it will be 
found perfectly hard. The depth of the 
color, whether light or dark straw, must 
be determined by the nature of the cast 
steel being used, which can be gained 
only from experience of the steel. 

Scissors Hardening.— The united legs 
of the scissors are uniformly heated to a 
dark cherry red, extending from the 
point to the screw or rivet hole, this 
may be done in the naked fire, a feeble 
current of air being admitted until the 
steel commences to glow. , Then the fire 
is left to itself and the scissor parts are 
drawn to and fro in the fire, untd all the 
parts to be hardened show a uniform 
Itrk cherry red. The two legs are 
hardened together in water an3 then 
tpmDered purple red to violeu 

^he Simultaneous heating, hardening 
and tempering of the parts belonging 

^^^^^ 
the immersion in the h^denmg ^ 

^d vSUfurto^ove the 
riveting hole. Scaling ._Articles 

method: equal F art 

common salt JJ^fane) ^ hftrdene d 
mixed. Bip the artic mixture an d 



686 

j j- A , ro lI in the salt and 

the , fir r e eScet P th: fire and bring to the 

me& \l7 hel for hardening. Watch 
required neat i fc lt 

the 

heating. 



STEEL 



heat, forms a . 

; u rYace of the steel which excludes the 

nts t 

oil comes 

same rtult, but is somefmea d.fficult to 
remove when cold. 

ToTto S taken at the temperature 
of 302° F. Its weight must be equal 
Jo about 6 times the weight of the pieces 
In be tempered. For hard temper add 
o the g ycerine i to 4 per cent of sulphate 
of potfsh or of manganese and for soft 
temper 1 to 10 per cent of chloride of 
manganese, or 1 to 4 per cent of chloride 
of potassium. The temperature of the 
tempering bath is varied according to 
the results desired. 

II —Glycerine, 8,000 parts, by weight; 
cooking salt, 500 parts, by weight; sal 
ammoniac, 100 parts, by weight; con- 
centrated hydrochloric acid, 50 parts; 
and water, 10,000 parts, by weight. 
Into this liquid the steel, heated, for 
example, to a cherry red, is dipped. A 
reheating of the steel is not necessary. 

To Remove Burnt Oil from Hardened 
Steel. — To remove excess oil from parts 
that have been hardened in oil, place the 
articles in a small tank of gasoline, whi ch, 
when exposed to the air, will dry off 
immediately, allowing the part to be 
polished and tempered without the con- 
fusing and unsightly marks of burnt oil. 

VARIOUS RECIPES: 

To Put an Edge on Steel Tools. — 
Aluminum will put an edge on fine cut- 
ting instruments such as surgical knives, 
razors, etc. It acts exactly like a razor- 
hone of the finest quality. When steel 
is rubbed on the aluminum, as, for in- 
stance, in honing a knife blade, the met- 
al disintegrates, forming an infinitely 
minute powder of a greasy unctuous 
quality that clings to steel with great 
tenacity and thus assists in cutting away 
the surface of the harder metal. So fine 
is the edge produced that it can in no 

W1S ^ • ? e finer °y the strop, which 
used in the ordinary way merely tends to 
round the edge. 

To Restore Burnt Steel.— To restore 
burnt cast steel heat the piece to a red 



heat and sprinkle over it. a mixture nt 
g parts red caromate ot «JOtassi Uln . 4 
parts saltpeter; i part, aloes; \ part gun 
arabic; and I part rosin. 6 *»» 

To Remove Strains in Metal by Heat 
ing, — In making springs of piano wi re 
or, in fact, any wire, if the metal « 
heated to a moderate degTee the spring 
will be improved. Piano or any s t ef jj 
wire should be heated to a blue, brass 
w ire to a degree sufficient to cause tal 
low to smoke. Heating makes the met 
al homogeneous; before heating, it is f ul 
of strains. 

If a piece of metal of any kind ig 
straightened cold and then put into a 
lathe and a chip turned off, it will be far from 
true. Before turning, it was held true bj 
the strain of the particles on the outside, 
they having changed position, while the 
particles near the axis are only sprung, 
The outside particles being removed b> 
the lathe tool, the sprung particles at the 
center return to their old positions, h 
after straightening, the metal is heated 
to a temperature of 400° F., the particles 
settle together and the strains are re 
moved. 

This is the case in the manufacture 01 
saws. The saw is first hardened and 
tempered and then straightened on an 
anvil by means of a hammer. After it f 
hammered true, it is ground and po hshec 
a little, then blued to stiffen it and thee 
is subjected to the grinding process 
Before bluing, the metal is full of Strang 
these are entirely removed by the am 
required to produce the blue colw. 



Often a piano-wire spring wdl 1 not stajg 
Ion* wear if used without heating, wiuie 
if heated it will last for years. 

To Render Fine Cracks in Tools iVj* 
b le,_It is often of importance to re«j! 
nize small cracks which appear ^ , 
metal of the tools. For this pugoje^ 
is recommended to moisten the » ^ 
surface with petroleum; next 1 ^ 
dry with a rag and rub again, u ^ 
time with chad! The out 
has entered the cracks soon cow bf 
again and the trace is plainly 
the chalk. ; s ofl e 

To Utilize Drill Chips.— J-^< luC eS 
modern ma chining P roces JXe than ttgj 

hanvl, with the f^J& u" 

are 



a shaving that has m^V'^dri 
of mere scrap, and that is ^ 
oil-tube drui 

cutting edge of this drill is W°f„ Tft lite?" 



to Gteps and the chips pw<lu«' t wf 
ally shavings, being long hair-" 
of steel. These shavings & ™ toI ieS 
ably used in woodworking 11 
smoothing purposes. 



STEEL 



687 



« Fragments of Steel from 

TO ^rJThl^emoval of broken 
Other MeWis. . g operation 

^ P d "a tbe most skillful machinist 
ff bich even 1 " imcg _ A practlca 

b as t0 ?n Amoving such broken steel 
process tor prepar ing in a suitable 

pieces consists 11 P q£ 1 by 

k^^^of commercial alum in 4 to 5 
weigh*, ot w» o£ water and bolling 
parts, by w«g > solution until the 

t! ? e ° b ihich is iucfc works itself out. 
piece * ll ' c V t ken to place the piece 
P arC h a DOsiUon that the evolving gas 
ia S \ l ? J° vise and npt adhere to the 

o£the 

alum solution. 

Testing Steel. — A bar of the steel to 
be tested is provided w.Ui about nine 
Mrhes running around it in distances of 
Sou of an inch. Next, the foremost 
nKed piece is heated in a forge in 
such a manner that the remaining por- 
tion of the bar is heated less by the fire 
proper than by the transmitted heat. 
When the foremost piece is heated to 
burning, i. e. } to combustion, and the 
color of the succeeding pieces gradually 
passes to dark-brownish redness the 
whole rod is hardened. A test with the 
file will now show that the foremost 
burned piece possesses the greatest hard- 
ness, that several softer pieces will follow, 
and that again a piece ordinarily situ- 
ated in the second third, whose tempera- 
ture was the right one for hardening, is 
almost as hard as Jhe first one. If the 
different pieces are knocked off, the 
fracture of the piece hardened at the 
correct temperature exhibits the finest 
grain. This will give one an idea of the 
temperature to be smployed for harden- 
ing the steel in question and its behavior 
in general. Very hard steel will readily 
crack in this process. 

Welding Compound. — Boracic acid, 
4H parts; common salt 35 parts; ferro- 
cyanide of potassium, St) parts; rosin, 
'4 parts; carbonate of sodium, 4 parts, 
^^t the pieces to be welded to a light- 
ed heat and apply the compound; then 
neat to a strong yellow heat and the 
gelding ma y be accomplished in the 
usual maimer. 

The precaution should be observed, 

1* Sa - n J e as with an y of tlle cyanides, 
avoid breathing the poisonous fumes. 

Softening Steel.— Heat the steel to a 
"own red and plunge into soft water, 



be tal7 atC u bein S the best - Uare shoulQ 
IpH *l ' howe ver, not to heat over brown , 
' otn erwise it will be hard when im- 



Care should 



mersed. The steel will be soft enough 
to be cut with ease if it is plunged in the 
water as soon as it turns red. 

Draw-Tempering Cast Steel.— First 
heat the steef lightly by means of char- 
coal until of a cherry-red shade, where- 
upon it is withdrawn to be put quickly 
into ashes or dry charcoal dust until 
completely cooled. The steel may also 
be heated in the forge to a red cherry 
color, then hammered until it turns blue 
and then plunged into water. 

Drilling Hard Steel. — To accomplish 
the object quickly, a drill of cast steel 
should be made, the point gradually 
heated to the red, the scales taken off, 
and the extremity of the point immersed 
at once in quicksilver; then the whole 
quenched in cold water. Thus prepared, 
the drill is equal to any emergency; it will 
bore through the hardest pieces. _ The 
quantity of quicksilver needed is trifling. 

Engraving or Etching on Steel. — Dis- 
solve in 150 parts of vinegar, sulphate of 
copper, 30 parts; alum, 8 parts; kitchen 
salt, 11 parts. Add a few drops of 
nitric acid. According to whether this 
liquid is allowed to act a longer or 
shorter time, the steel may be engraved 
upon deeply or the surface may be given 
a very ornamental, frosted appearance. 

To Distinguish Steel from Iron.— Take 
a very clean file and file over the flame 
of aTalcohol lamp. If the filed piece » 
made of steel, little burning and crack- 
Ung sparks will be seen. If it consists of 
iron/ the sparks will not crackle. 

STAINLESS STEEL: * 

Tn the United States we have a stain- 
less ^ alloy termed "stellite," one consist- 
K? of 75% cobalt and 25% chromium. 

l^Z" knives? an feathery; and is 
stainless. Many tes s .made at Pur^e 
University showed little or no 
when treated with 20% nitnc , 
25% sulphuric rt^dioi acetic 
acid, 38% ^ R rf JJ™ Sic acM, 90% 
acid, aqua regia, 5% C tl™[ ic so da, 5% 
phosphoric acid 1^ form- 

qtEEL TO CLEAN: 
^Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

ods. 



STEREO CHROMY — STONE 



688 

STENCILS FOR PLOTTING LETTERS 
OF SIGN PLATES: 
See Enameling. 

STENCIL INKS: 

See Inks. 

STEREOCHROMY. 

qtereochromatic colors can be bought 
around in a thickly liquid water-glass 
SXn. They are only diluted with 
water-Rlass solution before application 
o the walls- The two .solutions are 
Generally slightly dissimilar m their 
tZ^olion, g the inner coining less 
silicic acid but more alkali, than the 
latter which is necessary for the better 
preservltion of the paint. Suitable pig- 
ments arc zinc white ocher with its 
different shades of light yellow, red, and 
dark brown, black consisting of a mix- 
ture of manganese and lampblack, etc., 
etc White lead cannot be used, as it 
coagulates with the water glass, nor 
vermilion, because it fades greatly under 
the action of the light. The plastering 
to be coated must be porous, not fresh, 
but somewhat hardened. Otherwise 
the caustic lime of the plaster will 
quickly decompose the water glass. This 
circumstance may account for the un- 
satisfactory results which have fre- 
quently been obtained with water-glass 
coatings. Before applying the paint the 
wall should first be impregnated with a 
water-glass solution. The colors may 
be kept on hand ground, but must be 
protected from contact with the air. If 
air is admitted a partial separation of 
silica in the form of a jelly takes place. 
Only pure potash water glass, or, at 
least, such as only contains little soda, 
should be used, as soda will cause efflor- 
escence. 

STEREOPTICON SLIDES: 

See Photography. 

STEREOTYPE METAL: 
See Alloys. 



STONE, ARTIFICIAL. 

The following is a process of manu- 
tacture in which the alkaline silicates 
prepared industrially are employed. 

1 he function of the alkaline silicates, 
or soluble glass, as constituents of arti- 
st S *T? ne ' ,\ 3 to act as a cement, forming 
Tvli th . e , alk 1 al l Iie earlhs ' a-lumina, and 
!t ad > , lnsol uble silicates, which 
weld together the materials (quartz sand, 



pebbles, granite, fluorspar, and u 
waste of clay bricks). The mass i«„ 



waste ui <^iaj ull^vj. j, ue mass - 
be colored black by the addition 0 f 
quantity of charcoal or graphite to ft* 
extent of 10 per cent at the maxitmW 
binoxide of manganese, or ocher; red V 
6 per cent of colcothar; brick red, b\ I 
to 7 per cent of cinnabar; orange', bit 
to 8 per cent of red lead; yellow, by 0 L. 
cent of yellow ocher, or 5 per cent 0 ? 
chrome yellow; green, by 8 per cent of 
chrome green; blue, by 6 to 10 per cent 
of IMeuwied blue, Bremen blue, Casg e i 
blue, or Napoleon blue; and white, by 20 
per cent, at the maximum, of zinc white 
Chrome green and zinc oxide pro- 
duce an imitation of malachite. An 
imitation of lapis laz\ili is obtained hj 
the simultaneous employment of Cassel 
blue and pyrites in grains. The metallic 
oxides yield the corresponding silicates, 
and zinc oxide, mixed with cleansed 
chalk, yields a brilliant marble. The 
ingredients are mixed in a kind of 
mechanical kneading trough, furnished 
with stirrers, in variable proportions, 
according to the percentage of the solu- 
tion of alkaline silicate. The whole is 
afterwards molded or compressed by the 
ordinary processes. 

The imitation of granite is obtained by 
mixing lime, 100 parts; sodium silicate 
(42° Be.), 35 parts; fine quartz sand, 120 
to 180 parts; and coarse sand, 180 to 250 
parts. , , 

Artificial basalt may be prepared by 
adding potassium sulphite and lead 
acetate, or equal parts of antimony ore 
and iron filings, n 
To obtain artificial marble, iw> 
pounds of marble dust or levigated I cnau 
are mixed with 20 parts of ground |la« 



and 8 parts of fine lime and so 
silicate. The coloring matter is nu 
in proportion depending on the eiieci 



w r as 



mixing aiKaiiiie »»»^- - 40 
hed chalk, 100 parts; slaked hni^ 



be produced. . T, fai ' n ed 

A fine product for molding is obteg 
by mixing alkaline silicate 100 p ■ 
washed chalk, 100 parts; slaked Im- 
parts; quick lime, 40 parts, line 1 
sand, 200 parts; pounded glass, »v * ^ 
infusorial earths, 80 parts; flu° r ^ uC b 
parts. On hardening, there is 
contraction. . . tone 

Other kinds of artificial sre or 
prepared by mixing hydraulic 



.diu*> 



cement, 50 parts; sand, ^OOpart,,^ ^ 
silicate, in dry powder, cept & 

whole is moistened Witn l u V 
water and molded. . „ lB p]oj * e 

A hydraulic cement may be e r ^ d . 
to which an alkaline silicate w i0 M 
The stone or object molded ous 
covered with a layer of fluosw 



STONE 



689 



fW-nroof water-resisting stone 
A W ?,factured from sea mud, to which 
is manutactu hydrate is added. 

5 per cent ii xiviatet j > and - 

T-7nnce more at 212° F., whereupon 
dried once burned. By an admixture 

stones is still increased. 

qand-Lime Brick.— In a French patent 
, ™?kin2 bricks from pitch and coal 
t powered coke and sea sand are 

n'tlv heated in a suitable vessel, and 
Cner cent of pitch and 10 per cent of 
co Jtar added, with stirring The pasty 
™ s obtained is then molded under 
?*„ure The product obtained may 
11 employed alone, or together with a 
framework of iron, or with hydraulic 
lime or cement. 

According to a French patent for 
veining marble, etc., in one or more 
colors, coloring matters of all kinds are 
mixed with a sticky liquid, which *s then 
spread in a very thin layer on the surface 
of another immiscible and heavier liq- 
uid. By agitating the surface, colored 
veins, etc., are obtained, which are then 
transferred to the object to be decorated 
(which may be of most varied kind) by 
applying it to the surface of the heavy 
liquid. A suitable composition with 
which the colors may be mixed consists 
of: Oil of turpentine, 100 parts; colo- 
phony, 10 parts; linseed oil, 10 parts; 
siccatif soleil, 5 parts. The heavy liq- 
uid may be water, mercury, etc.; and 
any colors, organic or mineral, may be 
used. 

CONCRETE. 

Concrete is the name applied to an 
artificial combination of various mineral 
substances which under chemical action 
become incorporated into a solid mass, 
lhere are one or two compositions of 

; comparatively trifling importance which 
receive the same name, though differing 
tundarnentally from true concrete, their 
soudifacation being independent of chem- 
fx\ l nflueilc e. These compositions only 

i ""I tor passing mention; they are: Tar 

■ ad ?' made of broken stones ( mac - 
oflr tar; * ron concrete } composed 

pitch- 11 tu ^ nin S s > asphalt, bitumen, and 
I. hmv' ^l 1 . a & c °ncrete, consisting of 
last t n - S set in mol *en lead. The 
[ are on! 0 Vari , e . ties > wi th rare exceptions, 
enmn y - U ln connection with military 
L Conr"^' SUch as for fortifications, 
two^ proper consists essentially of 
first te UpS °. r classes of ingredients. The 
t Renpm,J me tne aggregate, is a heteror 
i Us ma ss, in itself inactive, of 



mineral material, such as shingle, broken 
stone, broken brick, gravel, and sand. 
Inese are the substances most com- 
monly in evidence, but other ingredients 
are also occasionally employed, such as 
slag from iron furnaces. Burnt clay, in 
any form, and earthenware, make ad- 
mirable material for incorporation. The 
second class constitutes the active agency 
which produces adhesion and solidifica- 
tion. It is termed the matrix, and con- 
sists of hydraulic lime or cement, com- 
bined with water. 

One of the essential features in good 
concrete is cleanliness and an entire 
absence of dirt, dust, greasy matter, and 
impurities of any description. The ma- 
terial will preferably be sharp and angu- 
lar, with a rough, porous surface, to 
which the matrix will more readily 
adhere than to smooth, vitreous sub- 
stances. The specific gravity of the ag- 
gregate will depend upon the purpose for 
which the concrete is to be used. For 
beams and lintels, a light aggregate, such 
as coke breeze from gasworks, is per- 
missible, especially when the work is 
designed to receive nails. On the other 
hand, for retaining walls, the heaviest 
possible aggregate is desirable on the 
ground of stability. 

The aggregate by no means should be 
uniform in size. Fragments of different 
dimensions are most essential, so that 
the smaller material may fill up the 
interstices of the larger. It is not in- 
frequently stipulated by engineers that 
no individual fragment shall be more 
than 4 inches across, and the material is 
often specified to pass through a rine 1 * 
to 2 inches in diameter. The absolute 
limits to size for the aggregate, however, 
are determinable by a number of con- 
siderations, not the least ^Pjrtant^ 
which is the magnitude and bulk of the 
work in which it is to be employed. The 
particles of sand should also be of vary- 
ing degrees of coarseness Ah ne dust 
life* sand is objectionable; its minute 
subdivision prevents complete contact 

sand or shore sand. universally 
The matrix is t be used 

Portland cement. It shouia i . g 
in too hot a condition, tc J»c ^ & 
usually spread °ver a wooden 



690 



STONE 



Roman cement and hydraulic lime may 

"^rfe^efSi take a larger 
Portland cement wm Boma n 

limit, while for ,'f° s ,n° .° cc ed 1 part of 
^C'rU or 2 pa* oflaud. P Ia tlie 
^"ufot^uLtioL there b assume da 
*■« «F 1 to 3 For impermeability, tne 
ratio ol 1 to J. J- ^ ^ ld be observed, 

S^^aSa^ be limited to 
i o 3 For hydraulic lime equal parts of 
fand and cement are suitable, though « 
parts of sand to 1 part of cement may be 

US Tne quantity of mortar required in 
reference to the aggregate is based on the 
vaSes kx the latter. For any particu- 
lar affgregate the amount of empty space 
Zjf eletermined by filling a tank of 
known volume with the minerals and 
then adding sufficient water to bring to 
a level surface. The volume of water 
added (provided, of course, the aggregate 
be impervious or previously saturated) 
gives the net volume of mortar required. 
To this it is necessary to make some ad- 
dition (say 10 per cent of the whole), m 
order to insure the thorough flushing ol 
every part of the work. 

Assuming that the proportion of 
interstices is 30 per cent and adding 10 
for the reason just stated, we derive 40 
parts as the quantity of mortar to 100 — 
10 = 90 parts of the aggregate. An 
allowance of \ volume for shrinkage 
brings the volume of the dry materials 
(sand and cement) of the mortar to 
40 + 40/3 = 53^ parts, which, divided in 
the ratio of 1 to 3, yields: 
53J. 

Cement = 13 J parts 



Cement 
1. . 
1. . 
1. . 
1. . 
1. . 
1. . 



Sand, |X53^ = 40 

Aggregate. . 90 



parts 
parts 



Sand 
..li. • 
. .2 . 



.3* 
.4 



..6 
■ .7 

...7i 
.81 



The cost of concrete may be materially 
reduced without affecting the strength or 
efficacy of the work, by a plentiful use of 
stone "plums" or "burrs." These arc 
bedded in the fluid concrete during it 3 
deposition in situ, but care must be taken 
to see that they are thoroughly sur . 
rounded by mortar and not in contact 
with each other. Furthermore, if they 
are of a porous nature, they should be 
well wetted before use. 

The mixing of concrete is important. 
If done by hand, the materials forming 
the aggregate will be laid out on a plat- 
form and covered by the cement in a thin 
layer. The whole should be turned over 
thrice in the dry state, and as many 
times wet, before depositing, in order to 
bring about thorough and complete 
amalgamation. Once mixed, the con- 
crete is to be deposited immediately and 
allowed to remain undisturbed until the 
action of setting is finished. Deposition 
should be effected, wher-ver possible, 
without tipping from a height of more 
than about 6 feet, as in greater falls tuere 
is a likelihood of the heavier portions of 
the aggregate separating from the lighter. 
In eltenfive undertakings, concrete, 
more economically mixed by mechanical 
appliances. . . m .„ u P 

P The water used for mixing may be 
either salt or fresh, so far as the £wjg 
of the concrete is concerned, tor sur ^ 
work above the gr ;ound jeveU sa an , 
any of the ingredients is obje ^ .a 
since it tends to produce effloresc ^ 
an unsightly, floury deposit, dm ^ 
get rid of. The quantity ol wa ^ 
quired cannot be stated With f*^* 
it will depend upon the propoitio ^ ^ 
aggregate and its porosity. , ar . 
determined by experiment vn e J 

case. Without ^J, t e, * 



Total 143J parts 

As the resultant concrete is 100 parts, 
the total shrinkage is 30 per cent. 
Expressed in terms of the cement, the 
concrete would have a composition of 1 
part cement, 3 parts sand, 7 parts gravel 
and broken stone, and it would form, 
approximately, what is commonly known 
as 7 to 1 concrete. 

There are other ratios depending on 
*.tie proportion of sand. Thus we have: 



nongh to "drown" the ^ &s a n 
ihoufd be .plentiful enough^ eve r 
sfficient intermediary oci , 



ticular 
enough 
should 

efficient intermediary u ^"Z u i «« a 

particle of the aggregate * ' 

particle of the * atrl Jv ter ioU3 * s a ° 
moisture is, in fact, as deleteri 

excess. t e df 

Voids.-The strength 
pends greatly upon its dens.tj; rjal ^.c 
secured by using coarse ma tfs 
contains the smallest ^ g as 0 f s» n 
empty spaces. Differen 



STONE 



■el, 



onA s tone vary greatly m the 
g raveK f nf voids they contain, and by 
i*? u . nt , Z fixing coarse and fine 
judicio^O , d ° ay be much reduced 

N 6 Z density Increased. The density 
and the densuy jn concrete ma . 

^ fill be determined by filling a box 
tenal iaaj capa city and weighing it. 
of 1 cu V; r f ?oot of solid quartz or lime- 
0neCU entirSy free from voids, would 
St0] 2 165 pounds, and the amount by 
W r g a cubic foot of any loose material 
7n hort o this weight represents the 
falls short oi l & con tained m it. 

proportion ot ^ 

hSTll pounds, the voids would be 
JSShK O? the total volume, or 30 

F The n following table gives the per cent 
of voids and weight per cubic foot of 
pome common concrete materials: 
Per 

Cent Wt. per 
Voids Cu. Ft. 

Sandusky Bay sand. 32.3 111.7 pounds 

Same through 20- 
mesh screen 38.5 101.5 pounds 

Gravel, | to J ineh....42.4 95.0 pounds 

Broken limestone, 
egg-size . . .47.0 87.4 pounds 

Limestone screen- 
ings, dust to ^ 

inch 26.0 122.2 pounds 

It will be noted that screening the 
sand through a 20-mesh sieve, and thus 
taking out the coarse grains, consider- 
ably increased the voids and reduced the 
weight; thus decidedly injuring the sand 
for making concrete. 

The following figures show how weight 
<ian be increased and voids reduced by 
mixing fine and coarse material: 

Per 
Cent 

t> i_! i Voids 
^ebbl eS) about 1 

inch 38 7 

Sand, 30 to 40 mesh. ' 35 !o 
Pebbles plus 38.7 per 

cent sand, by vol.. 19. 2 

Experiments have 




Wt. per 
Cu. Ft. 

101.2 pounds 
105.8 pounds 

133.5 pounds 

strp " r l r* , " CULa ua -ve shown that the 
concr ete increases greatly 
in » ■ x sity; in fact > a sli g ht increase 
cij^f^x ^ cr cubic fo °t adds very de- 
Cl ^ d > to the strength, 
addin gam iu stren gth obtained by 
ce" 8 . c °arse material to mixtures of 

W n „ t a vj Sand is shown in the fo1 ' 
mad P i % of results of experiments 
block* t ^.^any by R. Dykerhoff. The 
*a airVnT£L Were 2 %-inch cubes, 1 day 
r and 27 days in water. 



These figures show how greatly the 
strength is improved by adding coarse 
material, even though the proportion of 
cement is thereby reduced. A mixture of 
1 to 12 J of properly proportioned sand 
and gravel is, in fact, stronger than 1 to ' 
4, and nearly as strong as 1 to 3, of 
cement and sand only. 

In selecting materials for concrete, 
those should be chosen which give the 
greatest density. If it is practicable to 
mix two materials, as sand and gravel, 
the proportion which gives the greatest 
density should be determined by ex- 
periment, and rigidly adhered to in 
making concrete, whatever proportion of 
cement it is decided to use. Well-pro- 
portioned dry sand and gravel or sand 
and broken stone, well shaken down, 
should weigh at least 125 pounds per 
cubic foot. Limestone screenings, owing 
to minute pores in the stone itself, are 
somewhat lighter, though giving equally 
strong concrete. They should weigh at 
least 120 pounds per cubic foot, if the 
weight is less, there is probably too much 
fine dust in the mixture. 

The density and strength of concrete 
are also ereatly improved by use of a 

miake strongly when rammed. It mixea 
?no drv Tt will never harden properly, 
and w?ll benight, porous, and crum, 

fts full strength. Thece men^ « . 
gravel should be intimately the fixing 

Materia!* for C^,B|*|S?i 

-In the » WiiSco norete are gen- 
spaces to be filled witn cu i|je f 
e?„lly too narro" to Perm ^ Wock . 
very coarse maient". 



692 



STONE 



. i- -*oJ tn pravel or stone not 

exceeding ; * or t coarse terial 1S , 
Biderableproporuo as m other 

however, ^t^^k, and gravel or 
kinds of concrete wo , w.U 
screenings shou d ct o d H For 
give the greatest P^ b » M _ thi]H f of the 
good .results, atlea at be co 

r^Tinch Slicks made from such 
than $ men. g be found 

grSVe if rno'fwitl Ind only. It i. 
18 * ■ to suppose that tie coarse 
s, mistake to . su 1 P'' the surface; if 
fragments will show on we 

in fact, desirab £^™JjjL° many 

SSSSS hold ESS the .smooth liftj 

lesS surface of J^^ehlpest 
gravel are, in most cases 
material to use for block work. The 
nresence of a few per cent of clay or 
Foam is not harmfnl provided the mixing 
is thorough. Stone screenings, it ot 
good quality, give fully as strong concrete 
a° sand and gravel, and usually yield 
blocks of somewhat lighter color. Screen- 
ings from soft stone should be avoided, 
also such as contain too much dust. 
This can be determined from the weight 
per cubic foot, and by a sifting test. It 
more than two-thirds pass J inch, and 
the weight (well jarred down) is less than 
120 pounds, the material is not the best. 

Cinders are sometimes used for block 
work; they vary greatly in quality, but if 
clean and of medium coarseness will give 
fair results. Cinder concrete never de- 
velops great strength, owing to the por- 
ous character and crushability of the 
cinders themselves. Cinder blocks may, 
however, be strong enough for many 
purposes, and suitable for work in which 
great strength is not required. 

Lime. — It is well known that slaked 
lime is a valuable addition to cement 
mortar, especially for use in air. In 
sand mixtures, 1 to 4 or 1 to 5, at least 
one-third of the cement may be replaced 
by slaked lime without loss of strength. 
The_ most convenient form of lime for 
use in block-making is the dry-slaked or 
hydrate lime, now a common article of 
commerce. This is, however, about as 
expensive as- Portland cement, and there 
is no great saving in its use. Added to 
block concrete, in the proportion of i to 
4 tbe cement used, it will be found to 
make the blocks lighter in color, denser, 
*ua decidedly less permeable by water. 

Cement. — Portland cement is the only 



hydraulic material to be seriously Ccm 
sidered by the blockmajcer. >f at 
and slag cements and hydraulic lime 
useful for work which remains constant!, 
wet, but greatly inferior in strength and 
durability when exposed to dry a j t . ? 
further advantage of Portland cement k 
the promptness with which it hardens 
and develops its i hill strength; this 
quality alone is sumeient to put all other 
cements out of consideration for block 
work. 



Proportions. — There are three un. 
portant considerations to be kept in view 
in adjusting the proportions of materials 
for block concrete — strength, permea- 
bility, and cost. So far as strength goes, 
it may easily be shown that concretes 
very poor in cement, as 1 to 8 or 1 to 10, 
will have a crushing resistance far be- 
yond any load that they may be called 
upon to sustain. Such concretes are, 
however, extremely porous, and absorb 
water like a sponge. The blocks must 
bear a certain amount of rough hand- 
ling at the factory and while being carted 
to work and set up in the wall. Safety 
in this respect calls for a much greater 
degree of hardness than would be needed 
to bear the weight of the building. Agam, 
strength and hardness, with a given pro- 
portion of cement, depend greatly on the 
character of the other materials used; 
blocks made of cement and sand, I to J, 
will not be so strong or so impermeabl 
to water as those made from J good ^ 
sand and gravel, 1 to fi. On the whole, rt 
is doubtful whether blocks of 
quality can be made, by hand 
and tamping, under ordwmgfa*g 
conditions, from a poorer 
1 to 5. Even this proportion i req u£» 
good results the use of properi y ^ 
sand and gravel or WjeeWgs, * ^ 
amount of water and t horougl^ i *. 
and tamping. When suitable g ^ 
not obtainable, and coarse mix > ^ 
only is used, the proportion shou fa g 
less than 1 to 4. Fine sand . ^ _ 
very bad material, and S°° a °\ he nscf 
not be made from it except : DJ [dm ^e 
an amount of cement which woui 
the cost very high. ^en^' 1 1 

The mixtures above reconii^ „ 

4 and 1 to 5, will nf*3Sdfc5-°"S 
what porous, and may be dec ^ - , I> 



Jravef 'ox screenings used is ^ Pj^jtig 
fraded. The ™^f*gg> ut Iffi 
may be greatly improved, ^ . 0 j 
strength, by replacing •J^gg 
cement by hydrate lime. ■> ■ , a g', e 
extremely fine material, , a ^ 
weight of it goes much fun 



STONE 



693 



„„ n * 0 f cement in filling the 
ame f^fjlct^- It has also the 
oreS t rniking the wet mixture more 
effect of m /~* B re eas ily compacted by 
plastic and T„ ives the finished blocks 

• l!ft bte F«nowin«' mixtures, then, are to 
The f 01 ^^ for concrete blocks. 
6 ^e?' is meant a suitable mix- 
By Knd and gravel, or stone screen- 
™l Containing grains of all sizes, from 
- e to J inch. 

1 to 4 Mixtures, by Weight. 
Cement, 150 parts; gravel, 600 parts 
Sent, 125 parts; hydrated lime, 25 
rfs- gravel, 600 parts f . 
Cement, 100 parts; hydrated lime, 50 
; gravel, 600 parts. 
1 to 5 Mixtures, by Weight. 
Cement, 120 parts; gravel, 600 parts. 
Cement, 100 parts; hydrated lime, 20 
parts; gravel, 600 parts. 

Proportion of Water.— This is a 
matter of the utmost consequence, and 
has more effect on the quality of the work 
than is generally supposed. Blocks 
made from too dry concrete wilt always 
remain soft and weak, no matter how 
thoroughly sprinkled afterwards. On 
the other hand, if blocks are to be re- 
moved from the machine as soon as 
made, too much water will cause them 
to stick to the plates and sag out of 
shape. It is perfectly possible, how- 
ever, to give the concrete enough water 
for maximum density and first-class 
hardening properties, and still to remove 
the blocks at once from the mold. _A 
good proportion of coarse material 
allows the mixture to be made wetter 
without sticking or sagging. Use of 
plenty of water vastly improves the 
strength, hardness, and waterproof qual- 
ities of blocks, and makes them decid- 
edly lighter in color. The rule should 
be: 

Use as much water as possible with- 
out causing the blocks to stick to the 
plates or to sag out of shape on removing 
nom the machine. 



Th 



shape on removing 

' ~ ^f, ainou nt of water required to pro- 
!"* c j *his result varies with the materials 
useu, but is generally from 8 to 9 per cent 
5p ui eieht o{ the dr y mixture. A prac- 
th* ■ b r ckmak er can judge closely when 
"e right amount of water has been added, 
1 han3 UC V mg S0 - me of ^e mixture in the 
tion nt er ^ s ^ght variations in propor- 
enc P ; fl Yu ter ma *e such a marked differ- 
that Ih quality and color of the blocks 
for th Water ' when the proper quantity 
tae materials used has been deter- 



mined, should always be accurately meas- 
ured out for each batch. In this way 
much time is saved and uncertainty 
avoided. 

Facing. — Some blockmakers put on 
a facing of richer and finer mixture, 
making the body of the block of poorer 
and coarser material. As will be ex- 
plained later, the advantage of the prac- 
tice is, in most cases, questionable, but 
facings may serve a good purpose in case 
a colored or specially waterproof surface 
is required. Facings are generally made 
of cement and sand, or fine screenings, 

Eassing a J-inch sieve. To get the same 
ardness and strength as a 1 to 5 gravel 
mixture, at least as rich a facing as 1 to 
3 will be found necessary. Probably 
1 to 2 will be found better, and if one- 
third the cement be replaced by hydrate 
lime the waterproof qualities and ap- 
pearance of the blocks will be improved. 
A richer facing than 1 to 2 is liable to 
show greater shrinkage than the body of 
the block, and to adhere imperfectly or 
develop hair-cracks in consequence. 

Poured Work. — The above sugges- 
tions on the question of proportions of 
cement, sand, and gravel for tamped 
blocks apply equally to concrete made 
very wet, poured into the mold, and 
allowed to harden a day or longer before 
removing. Castings in a sand mold are 
made by the use of very liquid concrete; 
sand and gravel settle out too rapidly 
from such thin mixtures, and rather fane 
limestone screenings are generally used. 

Mixing.— To get the full benefit of the 
cement used it Is necessary that all the 
materials shall be very thoroughly mixed 
together. The strength of the block as 
a whole will be only as .feat as that of 
its weakest part, and it is the height 
of folly, after putting a liberal measure 

anl SrJOT^. than to 

too small proportion o c emen £ ixed dry , 

The materials shou d be 
until the cement ^ unit or m y ^ 
and perfectly mingled with the 



gravel or screenings; 



to be added' and the mixing^ continue* 



the cement paste. 

Concrete Mixer S/ — Hand 



mixing 



69* 

A it is impossible by this method to 



STONE 



d knead- 
lachi 

10 



ing action which MP* a" or ?S 

Sorse-power reqmr { lt 1S of 

foT/i-ork^hand the same 



And the machine never 
hirks if not constantly urged a 
nature of men to do. 1 i IS m 



ets tired 
as it is 
ard to 
of concrete 
ccessfully earned on 
Kven tor a 

hine, which may be driven by 



time 
or s 

see how' the manual. u<; 
blocks can be su 
without a concrete mixer. 

" less it will jr-^ . , 
oFlabor and excellence of work to xnstal 



KK^oUr gasoline eng^e 
In work necessarily so exact J^, 
requiring 

^batct i«7whiohUte a meas- 
ured quantity of material, mix it, and 
discharge it, at each operation, are the 
X satisfactory .type, and— ous 
mixers are unsuitable. Those of the 
-mill type, consisting ot an open 



perfectly uniform mixtures 
constant percentage ot 



trough with revolving paddles and bot- 
tom discharge, arc positive and thorough 
m their action, and permit the whole 
operation to be watched and controlled. 
They should be provided with exten- 
sible arms of chilled iron, which can be 
lengthened as the ends become worn. 

Concrete Block Systems. — For smaller 
and less costly buildings, separate blocks, 
made at the factory and built up into the 
walls in the same manner as brick or 
blocks of stone, are simpler, less ex- 
pensive, and much more rapid in con- 
struction than monolithic work. They 
also avoid some of the faults to which 
solid concrete work, unless skillfully 
done, is subject, such as the formation of 
shrinkage cracks. 

There are two systems of block mak- 
ing, differing in the consistency of the 
concrete used: 

1. Blocks tamped or pressed from 
semi-wet concrete, and removed at once 
from the mold. 

2. Blocks poured or tamped from wet 
concrete, and allowed to remain in the 
mold until hardened. 

Tamped Blocks from Semi-Wet Mix- 
tur ®* These are practically always 
made on a block machine, so arranged 
that as soon as a block is formed the 
+u te ?i and sirle Phites are removed and 
the block lifted from the machine. By 
tar the larger part of the blocks on the 
market are made in this way. "Usually 
mese are of the one-piece type, in which a 



single block, provided with hoiW * 
makes the whole thickness of the ^ 
Another plan is the t wo-piece svstem*' 1 ' 
which the face and back of the wai?* 111 
made up oi different blocks, 
over each other as to give a V> 0 nd P ^ 
hold the wall together. Blocks of a 
two-piece type are generally formed i« 
hand or hydraulic press. 11 * 

Various shapes and sizes of blocks 
commonly made; the buildcis of \\* 
most popular machines have, however 
adopted the standard length of 32 i Uc Jl 
and height of 9 inches for the fulU; z J 
block, with thickness of 8, 10, and \a 
inches. Lengths of 24, 16, and 8 inches 
are also obtained on the same machines 
by the use of parting plates and suitably 
divided face plates; any intermediate 
lengths and any desired heights may 
be produced by simple adjustments or 
blocking off. 

Blocks are commonly made plain, 
rock-faced, tool-faced, paneled, and ot 
various ornamental patterns. New de- 
signs of face plates are constantly being 
added by the most progressive machine 
makers. 

Block Machines. — There are many 
good machines on the market, most of 
which are of the same general type and 
differ only in mechanical details. They 
may be divided into two classes: those 
with vertical and those with horizontal 
face. In the former the ace pla e 
stands vertically, and the block is simp ? 
lifted from the machine, on its base plat 
as soon as tamped. In feo 
the face plate forms the bottom of ^ 
e cores are withdrawn homoB 
of a lever tne 



HI 



mold; the corei 
tally, and by the motion - 
block with its face plate is tippea 



a vertical position 



for removal. 



the blocks, 



it is desired to put a facing oil- ^ 
machines ot the horizontal-!^ , ^ h 
considered the more convenient^ ^ 
a facing may easily be put oi of a 
vertical-face machine by tne 
parting plate. ^ 
Blocks Poured from w<* ^ io0 
—As 
dry is 

cess of water is T-hine P r . 

The above-described d»g 
in which blocks are tamptd^ , 
concrete and at once rem ^ ua [ ,i 
blocks of admirable hardnt. llS ed- \ 

■ n ., • ... „t water * 3 „„rf ^ 



already slated, concrete^ ^ # 
s practically worthies s, ^ ficieIi c| 
of water is better than a , « ceS >, 



water 

method of making blocks 
concrete, by the use ot * 



if iln- mnxin l of , ^f**^ 

sl e . e 



of separable m 



olds of ?heetj ed j£ 



which the wet concrete is P^ rdeI1 for- 
which the blocks are left to 



STONE 



695 



hours or 
able use 
ex 



t. h-is come, into consider- 
10 Tv this method blocks of 
,ble U3C * , irLninff and resistance to 
excellent ^Sifobtained. Whether 
W ater axe ce ." t} J equa l «f the ordinary 
the process ^ res pect of economy 

** c T e Z l product must be left to 
% { dKon of those who have had actual 

^^^ch-known cast-stone process 

Ss n pouring liquid concrete mix- 
consists m p ^ mftde from a 

hern ia a manner similar to that m 

P K molds for iron castings are pro- 
hlch molds i bg the {us 

da f from the quid mixture, and the 
m fJT\I in tie mold for 24 hours 
SfSgr untS thoroughly set This 
proSaecessitates the making of a new 
sand mold for every casting, and is neces- 
sarily much less rapid than the machine 
method. It is less extensively used for 
building blocks than for special orna- 
mental architectural work, sills, lintels, 
columns, capitals, etc., and for purposes 
of this kind it turns out products ot the 
highest quality and beauty. 

Tamping of Concrete Blocks. — This 
is generally done by means of hand 
rammers. Pneumatic tampers, operat- 
ed by an air compressor, are in use at a 
few plants, apparently with considerable 
saving in time and labor and improve- 
ments in quality of work. Hand tamping 
must be conscientious and thorough, or 
poor work will result. It is important 
that the mold should be filled a little at 
a time, tamping after each addition; at 
least four fillings and tarn pings should be 
given to each block. If the mixture is 
wet enough no noticeable layers will be 
formed by this process. 

Hardening and Storage. — Triple- 
decked cars to receive the blocks from 
the machines will be found a great sav- 
of labor, and are essential in factories 
ot considerable size. Blocks will gener- 
ally require to be left on the plates for at 
east 24 hours, and must then be kept 
uncier roof, in a well-warmed room, with 
dav Uent spi ' inklin S' for n °t less than 5 
oni t m ? re " They may then be piled up 
hp « *r°? rs ' and in dr T weather should 
wettin / Uy with a hose * Alternate 
able f 8 tlr y in G is especially favor- 
tonor V hardening of cement, and 

th^J e f gainS m ^ ch gr i 6at ? r 
WaW j n " ke Pt continuously m 

Bl if y air " 

WS ? S \ 0uld not be used in building 

ar e mar A weeks from the time the y 

\ 8o iin e kU !^ this P eriod of sea " 
g ' blocks wdl be found to shrink at 



least -h inch m length, and if built up in 
a wall when freshly made, shrinkage 
cracks in the mints or across the blocks 
will surely appear. 

Efflorescence, or the appearance of a 
White coating on the surfaces, sometimes 
takes place when blocks are repeatedly 
saturated with water and then dried out; 
blocks laid on the ground are more liable 
to show this defect. It results from 
diffusion of soluble sulphates of lime and 
alkalies to the surface. It tends to dis- 
appear in time, and rarely is sufficient in 
amount to cause any complaint. 

Properties of Concrete Blocks — 
Strength. — In the use of concrete blocks 
for the walls of buildings, the stress to 
whi^h they are subjected is almost en- 
tirely one of compression. In compres- 
sive strength well-made concrete does 
not differ greatly from ordinary building 
stone. It is difficult to find reliable 
records of tests of sand and gravel con- 
crete, 1 to 4 and 1 to 5, such as is used in 
making blocks; the following figures 
show strength of concrete of approxi- 
mately this richness, also the average 
of several samples each of well-known 
building stones, as stated by the author- 
ities named: 

Limestone, Bedford, Ind. 

(Indiana Geographical 

Survey) • • • 7,792 pounds 

Limestone, Marblehead, 

Ohio (Q. A. Gillmore) 

7,393 pounds 

Sandstone, N. Amherst, 

Ohio (Q. A. Gill- 

more) 5,831 pounds 

Gravel concrete, 

:2.S, at 1 year (Cand- 

j^) ' 5,500 pounds 

Gravel concrete, 1:1-6- 

:S.7 ; at 1 year (Cand- ^ 

Stone concrete, I'M*} 

1 vear (Boston Jiil. , 
jj g) 3 ' 904 P ounds 

make, because it is al ™ 8 * / the w hole 
app ly the load ^n^m 16 
surface and also because a ^ 

inches long «d 8 "^o^o pou „ds, or 
a load of 150.00U to zv , i the 
m ore than the capac ity ^ ot auy 

largest testing W^£' lo *~ 8 inches 
quarter blocks 8 c hg ^ fc UoW 

wide, and » inc ^J hiT J of the surface, 
SpaC r?fh CasVSchool of Science. 



696 

j 530 pounds per square Inch, respec- 
J&ly, \hen 10 weeks o Id h8 



STONE 



ffil g 610 pounds per square men 
and *»» AU , F ' . m ade of cement li 
These blocks were m aoe 
parts, hmei part, sand and g 1^ 

and were tamped ^ fro m a » P fa the 
It is Probably safe to^jum^ de 

S^t Tto" ft ^ l g 000To g unds per square 
incn at 1 1: ith and 1,000 pounds at 1 

yea * r 'i.i „v if inches wk'e and 24 inches 
lOT A g t Vtolaltriace of *S 

SSU ^ fo s r u °ETbfo^ 

be 200 pounds per square inch, or 800 X 
109 - 38 400 pounds for the wnolc 
surface of the block. Dividing tins by 
Se weight of the block, 130 pounds, we 
findlhat 295 such blocks could be placed 
one upon another, making a total height 
of wail of 222 feet, and still the pressure 
on the lowest block won d be less than 
one-fifth of what it would actually bear. 
This shows how greatly the strength ot 
concrete blocks exceeds any demands 
that are ever made upon it m ordinary 
building construction. 

The safe load above assumed, 200 
pounds, seems low enough to guard 
against any possible failure. In Taylor 
and Thompson's work on concrete, a 
safe load of 450 pounds for concrete 1 to 
2 to 4 is recommended; this allows a 
factor of safety of B\. On the other 
hand, the Building Code of the city of 
Cleveland permits concrete to be loaded 
only to 150 pounds per square, inch, and 
limits the height of walls of 12-inch 
blocks to 44 feet. The pressure of such 
a wall would be only 40 pounds per 
square inch; adding the weight of two 
floors at 25 pounds per square foot each, 
and roof with snow and wind pressure, 
40 pounds per square foot, we find that 
with a span of 35 feet the total weight 
on the lowest blocks would be only 52 
pounds per square inch, or about one- 
twentieth of their minimum compression 
strength. 

Blocks with openings equal to only 
one-third the surface, as required in. 
many city regulations, are neavy to 
handle, especially for walls 12 inches 
and more in thickness, and, as the above 
ngiirea show, are enormously stronger 
than there is any need of. Blocks with 
openings of 50 per cent would be far 
more acceptable to the buildiug trade, 



and if used in walls not over 44 feet hit* 
with floors and roof calculated as a bSd 
for 25 feet span, would be loaded onh, t „ 
50 pounds per square inch of ac L., 
surface. This would gwe a factor J} 
safety of 18, assuming a minimum c oa 
pression strength of 1,000 pounds. 

There is no doubt that blocks wi^. 
one-third opening are inconveniently 
and unnecessarily heavy. Such a block 
32 inches long, 12 inches wide, and 9 
inches high, has walls about 3i inches 
thick, and weighs 180 pounds. \ 
block with 50 per cent open space would 
have walls and partitions 2 inches in 
thickness, and would weigh about 130 
pounds. With proper care in manu- 
facture, especially by using as much water 
as possible, blocks with this thickness of 
walls may be made thoroughly strong, 
sound, and durable. It is certainly 
better for strength and water-resisting 
qualities to make thin- walled blocks o{ 
rich mixture, rather than heavy blocks of 
poor and porous material. 

Filling the voids with cement is a 
rather expensive method of securing 
waterproof qualities, and gives stronger 
concretes than are needed. The same 
mav be accomplished more cheaply by 
replacing part of the cement by slaked 
lime, which is an extremely fine-grained 
material, and therefore very effective 
in closing pores. Hydrate lime is the 
most convenient material to use, uu 
nearly as costly as Portland cement t 
present prices. A 1 to 4 mixture J 
which one-third the cement is replaced 




1 to 4 concrete maoe nu.u "'T 6 (by 
hydrate lime, *; sand I and gravel. JW 
weight), Will befoimd ur^ 5, 
and much superior m th l\^ n f ceme nt, 
of the same richness consisting ot cei 
1*; sand and gravel, 6. ,j re - 

The cost of lime may be grea ^ 
duced by using ordinary n £ h ^ 
slaked to a paste The Urn e m ^ s0 
ever, be very thoroughly Aju # 
that no unslaked fragment* i may 
to make trouble by fbseque£ ffic ^tt 
sion. Lime paste is also very 0ll LyiD 
mix, and can be used suecesstuj < ^ 
a concrete mixer of the pug . b „u 
Ordinary stiff lime P» ste J°J h of ^ 
50 per cent water; twice as mu tf 0 t 
weight, should therefore ^ 
dry hydrate lime 

Waterproof Qualities 



aterproot yuaauww _ ord 1Iia t , r - 
of concrete building blocks, a . ^te 



.Tbec 



■;iy 



of concrete building * bs0 rD „<, 

made, is their tendency ™ " pe r»w 
, In this respect they are b 



STONE 



697 



aa than sandstone or common brick; 

itJ ^o permeable to allow plastering di- 
[y on the inside surfaee,_a»d must be 

furred 
oid < 

Uly follow 

then useand pup^^v «- "^■"".T 
Sc eased if tW were made suffieien Uy 



are 

F 60 ^ 0 ftndlathed before plastering, to 
furr . e , j mnn pss This practice is gen- 
aV °n d Slowed with concrete blocks, but 
erally foIlo ^ C ^ 0 p uUir ity would be greatly 
f thev were made sufficiently 
Sroof to allow plastering directly 
n the inside surface. 
For this purpose it is not necessary 
that blocks should be perfectly water- 
proof but only that the absorption of 
water shall be slow, so that it may pene- 
trate only part way through the wall 
during long-continued ram.. Walls 
made entirely water-tight are, in fact, 
obiectionable, owing to their tendency to 
"sweat" from condensation of moisture 
on the inside surface. For health and 
comfort, walls must be slightly porous, 
so that any moisture formed on the in- 
side may be gradually absorbed and 
carried away. 

Excessive water absorption may be 
avoided in the following ways: 

1. Use of Properly Graded Materials. 
—It has been shown by Feret and others 
that porosity and permeability are two 
different things; porosity is the total 
proportion of voids or open spaces in the 
mass, while permeability is the rate at 
which water, under a given pressure, will 
pass through it. Permeability depends 
on the size of the openings as well as on 
their total amount. In two masses of the 
same porosity or percentage of voids, 
one consisting of coarse and the other of 
fine particles, the permeability will be 
greater in the case of the coarse material. 
The least permeability, and also the 
least porosity, are, however, obtained by 
use of a suitable mixture of coarse and 
fine particles. Properly graded gravel or 
screenings, containing plenty of coarse 

tin 1611 * 5 and a ^ so enou S n nne material 
to nil up the pores, will be found to give 
a aucn less permeable concrete than fine 
or Coa rse sand used alone. 

2- Use of Rich Mixtures. — All con- 
iin l ate somewnat permeable by water 
under sufficient pressure. Mixtures rich 
naB cem . e . nt are of course much less 
Permeable than poorer mixtures. If the 
s1 T u . nt °f cement used is more than 

SSrT* to fiU the voids in the sand and 
mto v V t ry dense eoner «te ia obtained, 
exh. D 3 i , le Penetration of water is 
decS Y sW " The permeability also 
to tViV 68 co . nsid erably with age, owing 
cement S rad , ual crystallization of the 
ut m the pores, so that concrete 



which is at first quite absorbent may be- 
come practically impermeable after ex- 
posure to weather for a few weeks or 
T 0 "^ j • Tllere appears to be a very 
decided increase in permeability when 
the cement is reduced below the amount 
necessary to fill the voids. For example, 
a well-mixed sand and gravel weighing 
123 pounds per cubic foot, and therefore 
containing 25 per cent voids, will give a 
fairly impermeable concrete in mixtures 
up to 1 to 4, but with less cement will be 
found quite absorbent. A qjravel with 
only 20 per cent voids would give about 
equally good results with a 1 to 5 mix- 
ture; sucli gravel is, however, rarely met 
with in practice. < On the other hand, 
the best sand, mixed fine and coarse, 
seldom contains less than 33 per cent 
voids, and concrete made from such 
material will prove permeable if poorer 
than 1 to 3. 

3. Use of a Facing. — Penetration of 
water may be effectively prevented by 
giving the blocks a facing of richer 
mixture than the body. For the sake of 
smooth appearance, facings are generally 
made of cement and fine sand, and it is 
often noticed that these do not harden 
well. It should be remembered that a 
1 to 3 sand mixture is no stronger and 
little if any better in water absorption 
than a 1 to 5 mixture of well-graded sand 
and gravel. To secure good hardness 
and resistance to moisture a facing as 
rich as 1 to 2 should be used. 

4. Use of an Impervious Partition.—- 
When blocks are made on a horizontal 
face machine, it is a simple matter afte 
the face is tamped and cores pushed into 
place, to throw into each opening a sma 
amount of rich and rather wet mortar 
spread this fairly evenly, and then go o 
tamping in the ordinary mixture un 
Sigmoid is filled. A dense layer acros 
each of the cross walls is thus obtained, 
which effectually prevents moisture from 
massing beyond it. A method of ac- 
LmSfshing the same result with vertical - 
SS P machines, by inserting tapere 
wooden blocks in the middle of the cr0 ss 
walls withdrawing these blocks atter 
Tmpin^ and fi]]in| the 

assess 

5 Use of Waterproof Compounds 
mis a ed with Sent to the amount o 



STONE 



698 

a nAr rent of its weight, in- 
only 1 or 2 P« ce £ ting aualities in a 
crelse its ^J^" 1 B^thdroughly mix- 
kable degree e ^. i Ulo ^ nmDO un<l 

P 

eaCh ^iSny^erproof may be 



remar 



,i<= i.f suitable corapoun 



sma 



11' additional cost, 
In 



which » re P 

made, at very ~- — m j x tures 
from 1 .to 4 «1J impound, how- 

ever, care should be taken f in 

ag has beeu proved to be p uged 
its effect, and ^^Ir e tfeet after a 
weather, and are 

entirely worthless. 

ins.— Various v,asiies, to ^ . 
Si stone impervious to wat er ^ave 

SSL ^ bTsf £o™ Sylvestef 

Sort effectiVe remedy, in case a concrete 
bui ding proves damp, is to give the out- 
side wall? a very thin wash of cement 
suspended in water. . One or two coat, 
will be found sufficient. If too thick 
a coating is formed it will show hair 
cracks. The effect of the cement wash 
is to make the walls appear lighter m 
color, and if the coating is thin the ap- 
pearance is in no way injured. 

General Hints on Waterproof Quali- 
ties. — To obtain good water-resisting 
properties the first precaution is to 
make the concrete sufficiently wet. Dry- 
tamped backs, even from rich mixture, 
will always be porous and absorbent, 
while the same mixture in plastic con- 
dition will give blocks which are dense, 
strong, and water-tight. The difference 
in this respect is shown by the following 
tests of small concrete blocks, made by 
the writer. The concrete used was made 
of 1 part cement and 5 parts mixed fine 
and coarse sand, by weight. 

No. 1. "With 8 per cent water, rather 
dryer than ordinary block concrete, 
tamped in mold. 

No. 2. With 10 per cent water, 
tamped in the mold, and liiemold removed 
at once. 

No. 3. With 25 per cent water, 
poured into a mold resting on a flat 
surface of dry sand; after 1 hour the sur- 
face was troweled smooth; mold not 
removed until set. 

These blocks were allowed to harden a 
week m moist air, then dried. The 



25.9 



123.9 
24.9 



llO.fj 
33.3 



weights, voids, and water abg 0 rnti„ 
were as follows: 

i a t> 

Damp- -W et . ° 
_ tamped tamped P °Utt*i 
Weight, per cubic 

foot, pounds 122.2 

Voids, calculated, 
per cent of volume 
Water required to 
fill voids, per cent 

of weight 

Water absorbed, af- 
ter 2 hours, per 
cent of weight. . . 8.8 6.4 10,5 
The rate at which these blocks ab- 
sorbed water was then determined by 
drying them thoroughly, then placing 
Ly containing wa 

; intervals. 

1 2 3 

Damp- "Wet- -r> , 
tamped tamped roUTed 



9.8 9.4 12 5 



drying xneni tuuiu^uij, men placing 
them in a tray containing water { inch 
in depth, and weighing them at intervals. 



£ hour 2.0 



1 

2 
4 
24 
48 



hour 8.2 

hours - 4.1 

hours 5.2 

hours 6-1 

hours • ■ ■ 6.4 

These figures show 



0.9 
1.1 
1.6 
2.0 
3.4 
4.3 

that 



1-8 

2.5 
3.2 

7.0 
7.5 
concrete 



which is sufficiently wet to be thoroughly 
plastic absorbs water much more slow- 
ly than dryer concrete, and prove the 
importance of using as much water as 
possible in the damp-tampmg process. 

Cost.— Concrete blocks can be sold 
and laid up at a good profit at io cenb 
per cubic foot of wall. Common jj 
brick costs (at this wn ing) general 
about $12 per thousand, laid- M»* 
the cubic foot, a thousand bnet • 
equal to 41.7 cubic foot of 
$12, 20 cents per cubic toot, m _ ^ 
with pressed brick facing cost . from 
cents to 50 cents P«/*y2fr<* 
dressed stone from $1 to WoelS 
The factory cost of ^jj^eri* 
varies according to the gl 5 Q per 

Let us assume cement to u«- ' d „ r »vel 
barrel of 380 pounds, and sane. » 
25 cents per ton. With a 1 aJ1( u 
1 barrel cement will make ^ Jfc p* 
of solid concrete, or at W» fc- c0 st °« 
cubic foot, 14.6 cubic feet, 
materials will then be: 

Cement, 380 pounds ' 

Sand and gravel, 1,500 p^nds. 



Total ' cop; 

or 11.5 cents per cubic f°°* 8 £ igh 
Crete. Now, blocks 9 incbej^, | J 
32 inches long make ^. f l n f thi s h 
face of wall, each. Block* o 



STONE 



699 



, , „tv, « inches thick, make 1 J cubic 
an d length. 8 mcne ^ 

fe^ °* W *'L ?£t of wall. From these 



.3 cts. 



inches, \ 



7.7 cts. 
15.4 cts. 



11.6 cts. 



fee l « cubic feet of wall. Fr, 
mak we may calculate the cost of 
figl ! r rLl S for these blocks, with cores or 
fSs e^al to 4 or * the total volume, 
as follows: 

Per cubic foot of .block, i open- 

Peffub^ 58ctg . 
Blpct 8 x'9 x 32 inches, i open- ^ 
Block 8 * 9 x 32 inches, \ open- 

BIS"". Wx9x32 "inches, \ 

opening 

Block 12x9x 

opening 

If one-third of the cement is replaced 
by hydrate lime the quality of the blocks 
will be improved, and the cost of 
material reduced about 10 per cent. 
The cost of labor required in manufac- 
turing, handling, and delivering blocks 
will vary with the locality and. the size 
and equipment of factory. With hand 
mixing, 3 men at an average of $1.75 each 
will easily make 75 8-inch or 50 12-inch 
blocks, with \ openings, per day. The 
labor cost for these sizes of blocks will 
therefore be 7 cents and 10 \ cents 
respectively. At a factory equipped with 
power concrete mixer and cars for trans- 
porting blocks, in which a number of 
machines are kept busy, the labor cost 
will be considerably less. An extensive 
industry located in a large city is, how- 
ever, subject to many expenses which 
are avoided in a small country plant, 
such as high wages, management, office 
rent, advertising, etc., so that the total 
cost of production is likely to be about 
the same in both cases. A fair estimate 
of total factory cost is as follows : 

Material Labor Total 
8 x 32 inch, \ 

B space io.3 7 

8 x 32 inch, \ 

space 77 6 

*S % 32 inch, \ 

„» s P ae ? 15.4 10.5 

n x 32 inch, J 

s P a ce ii.e 9 

With fair allowance for outside ... 
S e l and profit > 8 " incn blocks may be 
m i fP Cents and 12-inch at 40 cents 
tor laying 12-inch blocks in the 
l l i contractors generally figure about 
cents each. Adding 5 cents for 



17.3 cts. 
13.7 cts. 



25.9 cts. 



20.6 cts. 



ex- 



team ingt the blocks 
e ^h, erected, or 



will cost 55 
27$ cents per 



cents 
cubic 



foot of wall. This is less than the cost 
ot common brick, and the above figures 
snow that this price could be shaded 
somewhat, if necessary, to meet com- 
petition. — S. B. Newberry in a monograph 
issued by the American Association of Port- 
land Cement Manufacturers. 

Artificial Marbles. — I. — The mass used 
by Beaumel consists of alum and heavy 
spar (barium sulphate) with addition of 
water and the requisite pigments. The 
following proportions have been found 
to be serviceable: Alum, 1,000 parts; 
heavy spar, 10 to 100 parts; water, 100 
parts; the amount of heavy spar being 
governed by the degree of translucence 
desired. The alum is dissolved in water 
with the use of heat. As soon as th 
solution boils the heavy spar is mixed in, 
stirred with water and the pigment; this 
is then boiled down until the mixture has 
lost about 3 per cent of its weight, a' 
which moment the mass exhibits a densi 
of 34° Be. at a temperature of 212° 
The mixture is allowed to cool with constan 
stirring until the substance is semi-liquid. 
The resultant mass is poured into a mol 
covered on the inside with several layer 
of collodion and the cast permitted t 
cool completely in the mold, whereupo 
it is taken out and dried entirely in an 
airy room. Subsequently the object may 
be polished, patinized, or finished in sor 
other way. 

II. — Imitation Black Marble. — 
black marble of similar character t 
that exported from Belgium— the lat 
ter product being simply prepared slat 
—may be produced in the fo lowm 
manner: The slate suitable for the pur 
pose is first smoothly po isbed with 
sandstone, so that no visible impressio 
is made on it with a chisel— this bein 
rough— after which it is polished fine 
with artificial pumice stone and last! 
finished with extremely light natural 
pumice stone, the surface fhen Present- 
ing a soft, velvet-like appearance. After 
Sfing and thoroughly Seating the find 
nolished surface is impregnated with 
Seated fixture of oil and I fine lain pblack 
This is allowed to remain 12 hours, ai 
according to whether the slate used 
aecoruinfe pro cess is repeate 

more or Jess gray, r . , . p 

until the g^y appearance is lost. £o 

with t n asues, i m&de thu 

lampblack. , A .J n "J pentin b c , with som 
waS dissolved in ■J^nun ^ e 
lampblack is spread ^ ^ 

Sh le rubbS 8 off "vigorously with 




STOPPERS — SIKAW 



.■ .„ ran Treated Urns, the slate 
SSTthfwS&«. <* W* marble. 

an anti-lea* and 

. -JfiiTP for plug-cocks use 3 parts 
eating mixture tor pi b f beeswax 

and cool- 

tt a mature for making glass stop- 
jl _A mixture iui ,<? together 

To Loosen a Glass Stopper.-L- 

Make a mixture of 

*i i„o ... 2 drachms 

^ coh °} 1 drachm 

gSS-itai-::: i drachm 

T ^ a oortion of this stand in the space 
abov ?he Copper for a few tours, when 
a sh Y |ht tap will loosen the stopper. 

tt_A circular adjustable clamp, to 
which is attached a strip of asbestos m 
which coils of platinum wire are im- 
bedded, is obtained. By placing this on 
the neck of the bottle, and passing a cur- 
rent of electricity through the coils of 
wire, sufficient heat will be generated to 
expand the neck and liberate the stopper. 
Heat may also be generated by passing 
a yard of cord once around the bottle 
neck and, by taking one end of the cord 
in each hand, drawing it rapidly back 
and forth. Care should be taken that 
the contents of the bottle are not spilled 
on the hand or thrown into the face 
when the stopper does come out — or 
when the bottle breaks. 

STOPPER LUBRICANTS: 

See Lubricants. 

STOVE POLISH: 

See also Polishes. 

The following formula gives a liquid 
stove blacking: 

Graphite, in fine pow- 
der 1 pound 

Lampblack , , 1 ounce 

Rosin 4 ounces 

Turpentine 1 gallon 

The mixture must be well shaken when 
used, and must not be applied when 
there is a fire or light near on account of 
the inflammability of the vapor. 

This form may be esteemed a con- 
venience by some, but the rosin and tur- 
pentine will, of course, give rise to some 
disagreeable odor on first heating the 
stove, after the liquid is applied. 

Graphite is the foundation ingredient 
in many stove polishes; lampblack, 
>nicn is sometimes added, a« in the fore- 



HAT DYEING 

going formula, deepens the color k iv 
the Tatter form of carbon is 0 f couS 
much more readily burned off than tW 
former. Graphite may be appli erl C 
merely mixing with water, and then Z 
odor follows the heating of the iron n 
coating must be well rubbed with a brush 
to obtain a good luster. 

The solid cakes of stove polish found 
in the market are made by subjecting 

ii.„ T,jw(]< ' r-cfi frr -t X M 1 i f f ii,! ..I ^rjyj 



ILL luvj " _ ~J 

the. powdered graphite, mixed 
spirit of turpentine, to great pressure 
They have to be reduced to powder and 
mixed with water before being applied 
Any of them must be. well rubbed with 
a brush after application to give a hand- 
some finish. 

STRAW HAT DYEING: 

The plan generally followed is that of 
coating the hats with a solution of var- 
nish in which a suitable aniline dye has 
dissolved. The following preparations 
are in use: 

I, — For dark varnishes prepare a 
basis consisting of orange shellac, 900 
parts; sandarac, 225 parts; Manila copal, 
223 parts; castor oil, 55 parts; and wood- 
spirit, 9,000 parts. To color, add to the 
foregoing amount alcohol-soluble, coal- 
tar dyes as follows: Black, 55 parts of 
soluble ivorv-black (modified by blue or 
green). Olive-brown, 15 parts of bril- 
liant-green, 55 parts of Bismarck brow 
R, 8 parts of spirit blue Olive-green, 28 
parts of brilliant-green, 28 parts of Bis- 
marck-brown R. Walnut 55 p arts of 
Bismarck-brown R. 15 parts of nigrosuL 
Mahogany, 28 parts of Bismarck* own 
R, which may be deepened by a 
nigrosin. , 

II.-For light colors prepare ayaro* 
as follows: Sandarac, 
450 parts; rosin, 4d0 P» r ^' \ , j? oT 
110 parts; wood-spirit, 9,00 pa rt^ 
tins amount use dyes as foW^s. ^ 
55 parts of chrysoidm, ^°^ arta of 



parts of cnrysoiuiu, ~ , t9 
aniline-yellow. Light green, 00 > ] fl . 
brilliant-green, 7 parts o* ^ 
Blue, 55 parts of spirit blue. £ r f , 
55 parts of spirit blue, 55 PJ^rffll* 
dulin. Violet, 28 parts of ■ n«t j~ 
3 B. Crimson, 55 PfJ 3 j 15 P^ s 
Chestnut, 55 parts of safranin, 
of in dulin. 

III. — Shellac 

Sandarac 

Gum thus 

Methyl spirit . • 
In this dissolve aniline 
requisite color, and appi> 



4 ounces 
1 ouiic e 
I ounce 

1 pto* t „ 
dyes °l h jie 



straw, white shellac must ne 



'For 
used- 



STYPTICS — SYRUPS 



701 



S3 SS«'are substances which arrest 
S t y ^l^infi. Creosote, tannic acid, 
loca , oil and most of the astringent 

,ui 0 r;»<; Stvptic. — A nostrum con- 
:J^SSr distilled from pine 

*° Helvetia's Styptic— Iron filings (fine) 
A rream of tartar mixed to a proper 
Sn d ,SS« with French brandy. 

Eaton's Styptic. -A solution of sul- 
fate disguised by the addition of some 
unfiportant substances Helvetia's 

Syptw was for a long 6 employed 
under this title. 

SrvtJtic Paste of Gutta Percha.— Gutta 
peril 1 ounce; Stockholm tar 1* or 3 
Eunces; creosote, 1 drachm; shellac, 1 
ounce; or quantity sufficient to render it 
sufficiently hard. To be boiled together 
with constant stirring, till it forms a ho- 
mogeneous mass. For alveolar hemor- 
rhage, and as a styptic in toothache, io 
be softened by molding with the fingers. 

SWEEPING COMPOUND FOR 
WOOD FLOORS: 

Sawdust IS pounds 

Paraffine oil Va pint 

Powdered wax 1 ounce 

Common salt Vs pound 

Sand fine 5 pounds 

Oil mirbane Vz ounce 

Melt the wax and add to the warm 
paraffine oil — add the oil of mirbane and 
any aniline color desired. Stir and satu- 
rate the sawdust. When thoroughly 
saturated add the salt and sand and 
enough sawdust to give your finished 
product the desired dampness, Put up 
in small wooden kegs. 



yenience; of the latter, that it has better 
keeping qualities. In the cold process, 
the sugar is either stirred up in the water 
until it is dissolved, or water is percolated 
or filtered through the sugar, thus forming 
a solution, In the hot process, the sugar 
is simply dissolved in the water by the aid 
of heat, stirring until solution is effected. 
The strength of the syrup for fountain use 
should be about 6 pounds in the gallon 
of finished syrup; it is best, however, to 
make the stock syrup heavier, as it will 
keep much better, using 15 pounds of 
granulated sugar, and 1 gallon of water, 
When wanted for use it can be diluted 
to the proper density with water. The 
syrups of the market are of this con- 
centrated variety. Unless the apart- 
ments of the dispenser are larger than is 
usual, it is often best to buy the syrup, 
the difference in cost being so small that 
when the time is taken into considera- 
tion the profit is entirely lost. Foamed 
syrups should, however, never be pur- 
chased; they are either contaminated 
with foreign flavor, or are more prone to 
fermentation than plain syrup. 

Fruit Syrups. — These may be pre- 
pared from fruit juices, and the desired 
quantity of syrup, then adding soda 
foam, color, and generally a small 
amount of fruit- acid solution. They 
may also be made by reducing the con- 
centrated fruit syrups of the market with 
syrup, otherwise proceeding as above. 
As the fruit juices and concentrated 
syrups always have a tried formula at- 
tached, it is needless to use space for this 

PU When a flavor is weak it may be forti- 
fied by adding a small amount of flav- 
oring extract, but under no con ton 
should a syrup flavored entirely with an 
essence be handed out to the consumer 
« a Mt syrup, for there is really no 
great resemblance between the t < 



Syrups 

(See also Essences and Extracts.) 

The syrups should either be made 
«om the best granulated sugar, free 
om ultramarine, or else rock-candy 
syrup, if the former) pure distilled 
water should be used m making the 
hp U i.4 a ? ° n * y m tk' ls manner can a syrup 
umrii- lned that b e ire 6 from im " 
IZ h "ffd od «>r. There are two meth- 
bv n! y .\ cn s y ru P can be made, namely, 
adv n « + Cold P r °cess, or by boiling. The 
Vantage of the former is Its con- 



?he bett ingredients in making syrups. 

Preservation of Wj^C 
vation of syrups ^ pure£ a £ made 
eeutical question. They must 

be easily and V™ c * 1 ? £ effected with 
the operation may be en fa u 

ESSfffi °p-^ J sterUizatio11 " 



702 

i o^rdstine in scalding the 
vprv simple, consisting 1 XT _ „„„, iri 
v with boihng water 



SYRUPS 



article 
should 
wi 



Vuit acid., in th« : P- s r e o ^ e h °ind g 3eV3op- 
as a media for the growtt. *™ t £ e 
vent of germ Me upon exPosu ^ ^ 



be filled into 



No syrup 
a container 
Tlx 



of germ me — r-~ , . 



boiling water "reasonable 
perature, will keep tor any 
f ,.,„ t u n f r ; me All danger ot tractunii 0 
\t g %sl by pouring water into it may 
t cWe/by first wetting the interior 
of the bottle with cold water. 

The fruits for syrups must not only be 
fully ripe, but they must bejjed im^ 
diately after gathering. The fr git : must 
be freed from stems, seeds, etc. filled into 
lightly tied linen sacks, and thus sub- 
jected to pressure, to obtain their juices. 
Immediately after jpres sure the juice 
should be heated quickly to 167 F., -and 
filtered through a felt bag. The filtrate 
should fall directly upon the sugar neces- 
sary to make it a syrup. The heating 
serves the purpose of coagulating the al- 
buminous bodies present in the juices, 
and thus to purify the latter. 

Syrups thus prepared have not only a 
most agreeable, fresh taste, but are very 
stable, remaining in a good condition 
for years. 

Hints on Preparation of Syrups. — 
Keep the extracts in a cool, dark place. 
Never add flavoring extracts to hot 
syrup. It will cause them to evaporate, 
and weaken the flavor. Keep all the 
mixing utensils scrupulously clean. 
Never mix fruit syrups, nor let them 
stand in the same vessels in which sarsa- 
parilla, ginger, and similar extract flavors 
are mixed and kept. If possible, always 
use distilled water in making syrup. 
Never_ allow a syrup containing acid to 
come in contact with any metal except 
pure block tin. Clean the syrup jars 
each time before refilling. "Keep all 
packages of concentrated syrups and 
crushed fruits tightly corked. Mix only a 
small quantity of crushed fruit in the bowl 
at a time, so as to have it always fresh. 

How to Make Simple Syrups— Hot 
Process. — Put 25 pounds granulated 
sugar in a large pail, or kettle, and pour 
on arid stir hot water enough to make 
* gallons, more or less depending on how 
I&T S 1 yru P is desired. Then strain 
while hot through fine cheese cloth. 



. — By percolation a 
to keep syrup on hand 
Have made a galvanized 
2 teet lone. R \ nn \,._ 



Cold Process. — By agitation. g u _ n 
25 pounds; water, 2 gallons. Vni iC 
sugar in a container, add the water a J5 
agitate with a wooden paddle until fl» 
sugar is dissolved. An earthenw aTe -7 
with a cover and a faucet at the bottom 
makes a very convenient container. 

Cold Process, 
good, easy way 
all the time: 

iron percolator, » feet long, 8 inches 
across top, and 4 inches at base, with a 
4-inch wire sieve in bottom. Finish the 
bottom in shape of a funnel. P u t a 
syrup faucet in a barrel, and set on a hox 
so that the syrup can be drawn iuto a gallon' 
measure. Bore a hole in the barrel head, 
and insert the percolator. Fill three- 
fourths full of sugar, and fill with -water. 
As fast as the syrup runs into the barrel 
fill the percolator^ always putting in plenty 
of sugar. By this method 20 to 25 gal- 
lons heavy syrup can be made in a day. 



Rock-Candy Syrup. — Sugar, 32 pounds; 
water, % gallons. Put the sugar and 
water in a suitable container, set on 
stove, and keep stirring until the mixture 
boils up once. Strain and allow to cool. 
When cool there will be on top a crust, 
or film, of crystallized sugar. Strain 
again to remove this film, and the prod- 
uct will be what is commonly known as 
rock-candy syrup. This may be reduced 
with one-fifth of its bulk of water when 
wanted for use. 

COLORS FOR SYRUPS: 

Caramel.^Place 3 pounds of crusty 
sugar in a kettle with 1 pint of w»g J 
an*d heat. The sugar will at first** 
solve, but as the water e^orsW 
solid mass will be formed, l^ 3 U1 
be broken up. . , t s tir- 

Continue to heat, with constants- 
ring, until the mass has again 
liquefied. Keep on a 
mass becomes very dark; 
the kettle from the fire 
3 pints of boiling water. => e« — ^ to 
back on the fire and permit eon ^ 
boil for a short time, then reI luce3 ej' 
cool. Add simple syrup to pro 
required consistency. 



Tow^fireunbltbe 



1 part 
20 pa rts 



usua 



Hy 



Blue. — 

I. — Indigo carmine. . . - 

Water 

Indigo carmine may 
tained commercially; 

II. — Tincture of indigo also : 
harmless blue. 



be o r 



SYRUPS— TABLES 



708 



Sap Blue.— 

Dark blue » P*™ 

Grape sugar....-.-. J Pj£ 

Water ^ 

rrpen— The addition of indigo-car- 
Gr 1 +; n n to any ye low solution will 
^ !De Various sVdeVof green Indigo 
Cmine added to a mixture of tincture 
C f iifn and glycerine will give a fine 
of C Ilor A solution of commercial 
Sorophyll yields grass-green shades. 

Carmine J PJ^ 

Liauor potasses o parts 

Rose water to make. . 48 parts 
Mix If the color is too high, dilute 
with distilled water until the required tint 
is obtained. _ , 

TT — Soak red-apple parings in Cali- 
fornia brandy. The addition of rose 
leaves makes a fine flavoring as well as 
coloring agent. 

Red- 
Carmine, No. 40 ... . 1 part 
Strong ammonia 

water 4 parts 

Distilled water to make 24 parts 
Rub up the carmine and ammonia 
water and to the solution add the water 
under trituration. If, in standing, this 
shows a tendency to separate, a drop or 
two of water of ammonia will correct 
the trouble. This statement should be 
iput on the label of the bottle as the 
volatile ammonia soon escapes even in 
glass-stoppered vials. Various shades 
of red may be obtained by using fruit 
juices, such as black cherry, raspberry, 
etc., and also the tinctures of sudbear, 
alkanet, red saunders, erythroxylon, etc. 

Orange. — 

Tincture of red sandal- 
wood 1 part 

Ethereal tincture of Orlean, q. s. 
Add the orlean tincture to the sandal- 
wood gradually until the desired tint is 
obtained. A red color added to a yellow 
one gives an orange color. 

"D"rple. — A mixture of tincture of 
mdigo, or a solution of indigo carmine, 
added to cochineal red gives a fine 
purple. & 

Yellow. — Various shades of yellow 
may be obtained by the maceration of 
sanron or turmeric in alcohol until a 
™ig tincture is obtained. Dilute with 
Water un til the desired tint is reached. 

SY £UP, TABLE: 
See Tables. 



Tables 

ALCOHOL DILUTION. 

The following table gives the per- 
centage, by weight, of alcohol of 95 per 
cent and of distilled water to make 1 
liter (about 1 quart), or 1 kilogram (2.2 
pounds), of alcohol of various dilutions. 

TABLE FOB. THE DILUTION OF 
ALCOHOL. 



ca a 



1 Liter 
contains 



5 
10 
15 

20 
25 
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 
00 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
00 



■u d 



"5 d 



Gms. 
42.87 
85.S9 
128.87 
171.83 
214.77 
257.93 
300.74 
343.77 
38Q.75 
429.65 
472.64 
515.60 
558.61 
601.55 
644.5S 
687.57 
730.51 
773.53 



Gms. 
950.13 
900.11 
852.13 
804.17 
756.23 
707.07 
658.26 
608.23 
557.25 
504.35 
451.36 
398.40 
343.39 
283.45 
232.42 
176.43 
119.49 
0.47 



1 Kilogram 
contains 



0.993 
0.986 
0.981 
0.976 
0.971 
0.965 
0.959 
0.952 
0.944 
0.934 
0.924 
0.914 
0.902 
0.890 
0.877 
0.864 
0.850 
0.834 



. 

0) u 
73 +> 
d 

■-te 



a v 

<!>►> 



Gms. 
43.17 
87.11 
131.37 
176.06 
221.18 
267.28 
313.60 
361.10 
409.69 
460.01 
511.52 
564.11 
619.30 
675.90 
734.98 
795.80 
859.43 
927.49 



Gms. 

956.83 
912.89 
868.63 
823.94 
778.82 
732.72 
686.40 
638.90 
590.31 
539.99 
488.48 
435.89 
380.70 
324.10 
265.02 
204.20 
140.57 
72.51 



3.99 
8.05 
12.14 
16.27 
20.44 
24.70 
28.98 
33.37 
37.S6 
42.51 
47.27 
52.13 
57.23 
62.46 
67.92 
73.54 
79.42 
85.71 



Capacities of Common Utensils —For 
ordinary measuring purposes a wine- 
glass may be said to hold 2 ounces. 

A tablespoon, \ ounce. 

A dessertspoon, \ ounce. 

A teaspoon, \ ounce, or 1, ^ r f ^m 

A teacupful of sugar weighs * pound. 

Three tablespoonfuls weigh 1 pound. 

Took's Table.— Two teacupfuls (weU 
helped) of coffee and of sugar weigh 1 

P °Tw d o teacupfuls (level) of granulated 
^SfStter (well packed) 
^ne'and'one-third pints of powdered 

^o^U^.* P- dered SUgaf 
reSpoonfulsare equal to 1 table- 

of powdered sugar weigh d) Q f 

ounce. 



TABLES 



704 

One generous pjjrt of ^ 

finely chopped meat, p 

weighs 1 P°nnd. 

~ ui n * TJroos.— Used in estimating 
Table of . D f°P fl avorill g extract neccs- 

the amount of a fl vor . « ^ d 

Sf'thS Ssum^n of 450 drops being 
eq One t0 drop U ofextract to an ounce of 

° ! pnual to 2 drachms to a gallon, 
syrup is equal to ~ Qunce of 

T " fl re d e° a P ual to if drachm, to a gallon 
Sy Tfree d?op of extract to an ounce of 
Wo are equal to 6* drachms to a gallon. 
S7 Fo P ur drops of extract to an ounce of 
syrup are equal to 1 ounce and 1 drachm 

t %ile al drop 3 of extract to an ounce of 
syr^p are e^l to 1 ounce and 3^ drachms 

^fdlops of extract to an ounce of 
syru P are equal to 1 ounce and 5 * drachms 

^le^nXops of extract to an ounce =of 
svrupare equal to 2 ounces to the gallon. 
* Eight drops of extract to an ounce of 
syrup are equal to 2 ounces and %\ drachms 
to a gallon. » 

Nine drops of extract to an ounce ot 
syrup are equal to 2 ounces and 4* drachms 
to a gallon. „ 
Ten drops of extract to an ounce ot 
syrup are equal to 2 ounces and 6| drachms 
to a gallon. 

Twelve drops of extract to an ounce ot 
syrup are equal to 3 ounces and %\ drachms 
to a gallon. 

Fourteen drops of extract to an ounce 
of syrup are equal to 4 ounces to a gallon. 

Sixteen drops of extract to an ounce 
of syrup are equal to 4 ounces and 4^ 
drachms to a gallon. 

Eighteen drops of extract to an ounce 
of syrup are equal to 5 ounces and 1 
drachm to a gallon. 

Note. — The estimate 450 drops to the 
ounce, while accurate and reliable 
enough in this particular relation, must 
not be relied upon for very exact purposes, 
in which, as has frequently been demon- 
strated, the drop varies within a very wide 
raage, according to the nature of the 
liquid, its consistency, specific gravity, 
temperature; the size and shape of the 
aperture from which it is allowed to 
escape, etc. 

.Fluid Measure. — TJ. S. Standard, or 
Wme Measure.— Sixty minims are equal 
to ltlm drachm. 

Eight fluidrachms are equal to 1 fluid- 
ounce. n 

Sixteen fluidounces are equal to 1 pint. 



Two pints are equal to 1 quart. 
Four quarts are equal to 1 g a ll 0n 
One pint of distilled water ^ e i K < 

about 1 pound. 

Percentage Solutions. — To prep are 

the following approximately correct soi u 

tions, dissolve the amount of medicament 

indicated in sufficient water to make o Qe 

imperial pint. 

For -h Per cent or 1 m 5,000 solution 

use 1| grains of the medicament. 

For -Jj per cent, or 1 in 2,000 solution 

use 4| grains of the medicament. 

For fs P er cent ' or 1 in 1 ' 000 solution 
use 8£ grains of the medicament. 

For I per cent, or 1 in 400 solution, 
use 21 § grains of the medicament. 

For i per cent, or 1 in 200 solution, 
use 43|"grains of the medicament. 

For 1 per cent, or 1 in 100 solution, 
use 87 h grains of the medicament. 

For 2 per cent, or 1 in 50 solution, 
use 175 grains of the medicament. 

For 4 per cent, or 1 in 25 solution, 
use 350 grains of the medicament. 

For 5 per cent, or 1 in 20 solution, 
use 437^ grains of the medicament. 

For 10 per cent, or 1 in 10 solution, 
use 875 grains of the medicament. 

To make smaller quantities of any 
solution, use less water and reduce the 
medicament in proportion to the amount 
of water employed; thus i imperial pint 
of a 1 per cent solution will require «J 
grains of the medicament. 

Pressure Table.-Thi. tabic : shows the 
amount of commercial sulphuric «rf 
(H,SO«) and sodium bicarbonate nfces 
sary to produce a given pressure. 

120 Founds Pressure. 

SodaB.car., A-dMjJ* 
Av. ounces ^ 
86 
123 
161 
198 
236 



Water, 
gallons 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 



71 

93 
US 
138 



Water, 
gallons 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 



UI Pound, P^-u^ 

Av. ounce* 
56 



Soda Bicar., 
Av. ounces 
96 
134 
171 
209 
246 



73 
100 

144 



7" , r eckon ^ the 
If marble dust be used, rtt ^ 
rate of 18 ounces hot water ^ 

Syrup Table.-The foHo^ jf 6 
the amount of syrup obtained r«» 

1. The addition of pounds o 
1 gallon of water; and the 



TABLES — TERRA COTTA SUBSTITUTES 



705 



•t of sugar in each gallon of 



,f oold 
W ater. 



Quantity of syrup actually p ound3 
obtained. of auga , r 



GaUor>3, 



Fluid- 
ounces. 



in one 
gallon of 
syrup. 



.93 
1.73 
2.43 
8.05 
3.6 
4.09 
4.52 
4.92 
5.28 
5.62 
5.93 
6.18 
6.S8 
6.7 
6.91 



TABLE-TOPS, ACID-PROOF: 

See Acid-Proofing. 
TABLES FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS: 

See Photography. 

TAFFY: 

See Confectionery. 

TALCUM POWDER: 
See Cosmetics. 



TANK: 

To Estimate Contents of a Cir- 
cular Tank. — The capacity of a circular 
tank may be determined by multiplying 
the diameter in inches by itself and by 
■7854 and by the length (or depth) in 
inches, which gives the capacity of the 
tank in inches, and then dividing by 231, 
the number of cubic inches in a United 
States gallon. 

TAPS, TO REMOVE BROKEN: 

First clean the hole by means of a 
small squirt gun filled with kerosene. All 
broken pieces of the tap can be removed 
a pair of tweezers, which should be 
^ la rge as possible. Then insert the 
tweezers between the hole and flutes of 
Vf tap. By slowly working back and 
™rtri and occasionally blowing out with 
U? r ° a" 6 ' the brok en Piece, is easily re- 



TATTOO MARKS, REMOVAL 

OF; 

Apply a highly concentrated tannin 
solution on the tattooed places and treat 
them with the tattooing needle as the 
tattooer does. Next vigorously rub the 
places with a lunar caustic stick and 
allow the silver nitrate to act for some 
time, until the tattooed portions have 
turned entirely black. Then take off by 
dabbing. At first a silver tannate forms 
on the upper layers of the skin, which 
dyes the tattooing black; with slight 
symptoms of inflammation a scurf ensues 
which comes off after 14 to 16 days, 
leaving behind a reddish scar. The latter 
assumes the natural color of the skin 
after some time. The process is said to 
have given good results. 



TEETH, TO PREVENT DECAY: 

Lime water made from coarse unslake 
lime, is an excellent preventive of decay- 
crush the lime to a powder, then take 
half cupful of the powdered lime and p 
in a quart bottle of cold water. Shp 
thoroughly. Allow the undissolved L 
to settle at the bottom of the hottl 
This will take some little time. After 
has settled, pour off as much of the cle 
water as can be poured 
any of the lime. Again fiU the bottle wrt 
cold water, shake well and al o w the sol 
tion to clear again After the hme h 
collected at the bottom of the bottle i 

SX^ultVan,, Then rt*. 
mouth with cold water. 

TEETH, TO WHITEN DISCOS 
ORED: 

Moisten the ^r of a ^ 
kerchief With eati „g the rut 

with it rub the tectn, ^ p ^ < 
bing occasion all y. £ infuso rial eart 
ingly tody P^J ^ imp ^ pftb 
or pumice S r °^"V nn with the hydro™ 
powder, in «^^ W1 £ll be quic 
SSSS&£ d p2SA alone. 

M roTTA SUBSTITUTE: 
TERRA C ° T ^ hisname , design. 

A substance, under tn u. r 
t0 A take the p ace oJM»£ 





THERMOMETERS— TIN 



Alum 1' 
Calcium sulphate, cal- ^ 

« ned ; g parts 

£? r f * . i . . s ° p arts 

Water .. , j 

£ i/thfusulwafand when set the 
Ses are exposed in an oven to a heat 
of 140° F. 

TEST FOR TRANSFORMER: 

Connect a 22% volt battery in series 
With a voltmeter and to one of the pri 
Tarv and one of the secondary terminal 
5 the coils are shorted the reading on 
the voltmeter will be over 20 volts. 

Thermometers 

Table Showing the Comparison of f~e 
Readings of Thermometers. 

Celsius, oh Centigrade (C) Reaomttb (B). 
Fahrenheit 





R. 


F. 


-30 


-24.0 


-22.0 


-25 


-20.0 


-13.0 


-20 


-16.0 


- 4.0 


-15 


-12.0 


+ 5.0 


-10 


- 8.0 


14.0 


- 5 


- 4.0 


23.0 


- 4 


-3.2 


24.8 


- 3 


- 2.4 


26.6 


- 2 


- 1.6 


28. 4 


- 1 


- 0.8 


30.2 


Freezing point of water. 


0 1 


0.0 


32.0 


1 


0.8 


33.8 


2 


1.6 


35.6 


3 


2.4 


37.4 


4 


3.2 


39.2 


5 


4.0 


41.0 


8 


4.8 


42.8 


7 


5.6 


44,0 


8 


6.4 


46.4 


9 


7.2 


48.2 


10 


8.0 


50.0 


11 


8.8 


51.8 


12 


9.6 


53.6 


13 


10.4 


55.4 


14 


11.2 


57.2 


15 


12.0 


59.0 


16 


12.8 


60.8 


17 


13.6 


62.6 


18 


14.4 


1 64.4 


19 


15.2 


| 66. 2 


20 


16.0 


68.0 


21 


16.8 


69,8 


22 


17.6 


71.0 



C. 


R. 


F. 


23 


18.4 


73.4 


24 


19.2 


75.2 


25 


20.0 


77.0 


26 


20.8 


78.8 


27 


21.6 


80.6 


2S 


22.4 


82.4 


29 


23,2 


84.2 


3D 


24.0 


86.0 


31 


24.8 


87.8 


32 


25.6 


89.6 


33 


26.4 


91 ,4 


34 


27.2 


S3. 2 


35 


28.0 


95 . 0 


36 


28.8 


SB. 8 


37 


29.6 


98.6 


38 


30.4 


100.4 


39 


31.2 


102.2 


40 


32.0 


104.0 


41 


32.8 


105.8 


42 


33.6 


107.6 


43 


34.4 


109.4 


44 


35.2 


111.2 


45 


36,0 


113.0 


50 


40.0 


122.0 


55 


44.0 


131.0 


60 


48.0 


140.0 


05 


52.0 


149.0 


70 


56.0 


158.0 


75 


I 6[).0 


167.0 


80 


64.0 


176.0 


85 


08.0 


185.0 


90 


72.0 


194.0 


95 


76.0 


203,0 


100 


1 80.0 


1 212.0 



in which f indicates degrees of 
ature: 

R£au. to Fahr. 1 



Boiling point of water. 



?t°R + 32°-i <> F 
4 

H^au to Cent, 
-t°R«=*°C 



9. 



temp er . 

Cent, to Fabr. 
|i°C + 32°»p F 
Cent, to IUau. 

Fahr. to Cent. 

Fahr. to Reau. 

i°F-32° j =-i°R, 



Readings on one scale can be changed 
mto another by the following formulas, 



THREAD: 

See also Cordage. 

Dressing for Sewing Thread.— p 0T 
colored thread: Irish moss, 3 pounds; 
gum arabie, %\ pounds; Japan wax, \ 
pound; stearine, 185 grams; borax, 95 
grama; boil together for \ hour. 

For white thread: Irish moss, g pounds; 
tapioca, 1^ pounds; spermaceti, f pound; 
stearine, 110 grams; borax, 95 grams; 
boil together for 20 minutes. 

For black thread: Irish moss, 3 pounds? 
gum Senega!, 2$ pounds; cercsin, 1 pound; 
borax, 95 grams ; logwood extract, 95 grams; 
blue vitriol, 30 grams; boil together fur 
20 minutes. Soak the Irish moss in each 
case overnight in 45 liters of water, then 
boil for 1 hour, strain and add the other 
ingredients to the resulting solution, it 
is of advantage to add the borax to the 
Irish moss before the boihng. 

THROAT LOZENGES: 

See Confectionery. 

THYMOL: 

See Antiseptics. 

TICKS, CATTLE DIP EOR: 

See Insecticides. 

TIERCES: 

See Disinfectants. 

TILEMAKERS' NOTES: 

See Ceramics. 

Tin 

Etching Bath for Tin.- .The dejfc 
either freely drawn upon the n . ke(1 
a needle or a lead pencil, o r et 
into the metal through Jjjfge W 
with a needle. The outlines a ^j, 
with a varnish (wax, co]oph° n i' ith 
The varnish is rendered fluid <fr* 
pentine and applied with a W id m » 
article after having dried J ^g 
* .solution of nitric acid foi '14 V b \ 0 W°* 
It is then wa shed and dried vw 



TIN — TINFOIL 



707 



The protective coating of as- 
paper.. T * e nV ^d by heating. . The zinc 
p!» 11 3 '?£ SSper portions is cleaned 
« xide witf a silver soap and brush, 
away wim 

„ nf Tin and Iron in Tinned - 
Recovery 01 * pro cess of utiba- 

Plate Canpjg " co F nsist s essentially 

i^r^mo'a o tlJtin. This must be 
in the removal ^ if he Ie _ 

^ S m ^?W to be available for cast- 
mainl aVe removal of the outer layer of 
ing - tin from the tinned plate is an easy 
; tin ii-y 11 .,_ ... i iri ,vAvpr is au- 



P Tter Beneath this, however, is an- 
^"crystalline layer consisting of an 
other erysi which is more dif- 

all °f °VtrPatment It renders the iron 

^uaSrSr casting, as even 0.8 
unavailable ior % rittleness . I ts 

per S is belt accomplished by elec- 
[Ss K dilute sulphuric acid is used 
« Jn electrolyte, the deposit is spongy 
S first and afterwards, when the acid 
hL be n partly neutralized, crystalline. 
2ft* 6 hours tne clippings are taken out 
and the iron completely dissolved m 
dSute sulphuric acid; the residue of tin 
is then combined with the tin obtained by 
the electrolysis. Green vitriol is there- 
fore a bv-product. in this process. _ 

Gutensohn's process has two objects: 
To obtain tin and to render the ironnt 
for use. The tin is obtained by treating 
the tinned plate repeatedly with hydro- 
chloric acid. The tin is then removed 
from the solution by means of the electric 
current. The tinned plate as the positive 
pole is placed in a tank made of some in- 
sulating material impervious to the action 
of acids, such as slate. A copper plate 
forms the cathode. The bichloride of 
tin solution, freed from acid, is put round 
the carbon cylinder in the Bunsen ele- 
ment. Another innovation in this proc- 
ess is that the tank with the tinned- 
plate clippings is itself turned into an 
electric battery with the aid of the tin. 
A still better source of electricity is, how- 
ever, obtained during the treatment of 
the untinned iron which will be de- 
scribed presently. The final elimination 
™ the tin takes place in the clay cup 
°t the Bunsen elements. Besides the 
chloride of tin solution (free from acid), 
another tin solution, preferably chromate 
01 tin, nitrate of tin, or sulphate of tin, 
according to the strength of the current 
aesired, may be used. To render the 
R °n ?f the tinned plate serviceable the 
acid is drawn off as long as the iron is 
coy ered with a thin layer of an alloy of 
S 4 a ? d tin - The latter makes the iron 
^\j.o r use in rolling mills or for the 
er. 



chloric acid or sulphuric acid is there- 
fore poured over the plate to remove the 
alloy, after the treatment with the bi- 
chloride of tin solution. This acid is 
also systematically used in different vats 
to the point of approximate saturation. 
This solution forms the most suitable 
source of electricity, a zinc-iron element 
being formed by means of a clay cell and 
a zinc cylinder. The electrical force 
developed serves to accelerate the solu- 
tion in the next tank, which contains 
tinned plate, either fresh or treated with 
hydrochloric acid. Ferrous oxide, or 
spongy metallic iron if the current is 
very strong, is liberated in the iron bat- 
tery. Both substances_ are easily oxi- 
dized, and form red oxide of iron when 
heated. The remaining solution can be 
crystallized by evaporation, so that fer- 
rous sulphate (green vitriol) or ferric 
chloride can be obtained, or it can b( 
treated to form red oxide of iron. 



Tin in Powder Form.— To obtain tii 
in powder form the metal is first mel 
next pour it into a box whose sides, etc. 
are coated with powdered chalk. Agitat- 
the box vigorously and without discor 
tinuing, until the metal is entirely coh 
Now pass this powder through a siei 
and keep in a closed flask, J. Mis t 1 
powder is eligible for various uses ai 
makes a handsome effect, especially 
bronzing. It can be browned. 

TINFOIL : 

See also Metal Foil. 

By pouring tin from a funnel with 

transformed into thir i f oi .Pur tin 

?7 er /d tor lacking &o. chocolat 
'f^tt In Stoy containing 5 to 40 p 
etc., but an auuy been recent 

cent of lead. tin by the f o 

plated on both side *i from n( 

fowing. method ^ A. ea ^ a t 
to .80 inches thick is po rf tl 

table as l°/^0 fc*e? in thickness u 
from * ; ( f ,Ki! 

on the'ottL side wun ^ ~ ^ h( 
manner. The sneei « Wf tin Ci , 
between rollers 



Capitation of copp 
23 



Fresh hydro- 



rom □• U> ™ irne d over and c 

Ve r y thin sheet tin co 
between { ' e way as sh* 

also be made in the same 
lead, by cutting ^,5^" tinfoil is P 
spiral sections. <-o or thoroU gl 



TINFOIL— TOOL SETTING 



708 

t finafl^ " ithaSSnsparen* spirit yar- 
in pface of this somewhat trouble- 
nl ; nScSS the following much simpler 
5 °a r f lily been introduced? Am- 
^ dvl dis in alcohol are applied 

S thHiSSed foil, and the coat, when 
covered with a very thin layer of a 
f '^7=. varnish. This is done by pour- 
f°l fh€ vImSh on the surface and then 
D ^in g Va the latter so that th e varnish 
may reach every part and flow ott. 

TIN, SILVER-PLATING: 

See Plating. 

TIN VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 

TINNING : 

See Plating. 

TIRE: 

Anti-Leak Rubber Tire.— Pneumatic 
tires can be made quite safe from punc- 
tures by using a literal amount of the 
following cheap mixture: One pound at 
sheet glue dissolved in hot water in the 
usual manner, and 3 pints of molasses. 
This mixture injected into the tire 
through the valve stem, semi-hardens into 
an elastic jelly, being, in fact, about the 
same as the well-known ink roller com- 
position used for the rollers of printing 
presses. This treatment will usually be 
found to effectually stop leaks in punc- 
tured or porous tires. 

TIRE CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives, under Rubber Cements. 

TISSIER'S METAL: 
See Alloys. 

TITANIUM STEEL: 
See Steel. 

TOILET DEODORANT: 

Eucalyptol % ounce 

Thymol l dram 

Borax 5 ounces 

This should be well mixed, then dis- 
solve in the following solution: 

Camphor water 20 ounces 

Glycerine io ounces 

Cresote water 62 ounces 

After being well mixed, the fluid should 
i-u I 1 f. r J ed to rem ove any foreign matter 
?■ 1 u.1 ot dissolv e. Then bottle and 
cork tightly. A few drops of this fluid 

L ,. r o °5 P - ed l nt0 the water ^ the toilet, 

Ep. f^+VS* water that y° u flre wash " 

"ig the toilet out with. 



TONKA, ITS DETECTION IN VAKm a 
EXTRACTS: 
See Vanilla. 

TOOL SETTING. 

The term "setting" (grinding) j 8 a 
plied to the operation of giving an edp" 
to the tools designed for cutting, S( . r .f e 
Cutting tools — - 



1 



ing, or sawmg. cutting tools are rubb^ 
either on flat sandstones or on rapidW 
turned grindstones. The wear on the 
faces of the tools diminishes their thick- 
ness and rendeis the cutting an „ig 
sharper. Good edges cannot be J D , 
tained except with the aid of the grind, 
stone; it is therefore important to select 
this instrument with care. It should be 
soft, rather than hard, of fine, smooth 
grain, perfectly free from seams or 
flaws. The last condition is essential 
for it often happens that, under the in- 
fluence of the revolving motion, a de- 
fective stone suddenly yields to the 
centrifugal force, bursts and scatters its 
pieces with such violence as to wound 
the operator. This accident may also 
happen with perfectly formed stones. 
On this account artificial stones have 
been substituted, more homogeneous and 
coherent than the natural ones. 

Whatever may be the stone selected, it 
ought to be kept constantly moist during 
the operation. If not, the tools will 
soon get heated and their temper will be 
impaired. When a tool has for a certain 
time undergone the erosive action of the 
stone, the cutting angle becomes too 
acute, too thin, and bends over on itseii, 
constituting what is called "the feather 
edge." This condition renders a new 
setting necessary, which is usually ef- 
fected by bending back the fearer edge, 
if it is long and whetUng the blade 
on a stone called a setter. j^tr 
several varieties of stones used tor w _ 
purpose, though they are mostly co 
losed of calcareous or argilaeeou < 
ter, mixed with a certain proportion 
silica. fi fffa jfl, 

The scythestone, of very hue J , 
serves for grinding off the feather e 
scythes, knives, and other larg ^ 
The Lorraine stone, of chocoJai ^ ^ 
and fine grain, is employed w " ^run- 
carpenters' tools. _ American c* ^ ^ 
dum is very erosive. It. 1S fi e dg e : 
water and with oil to obtain a " any0 f 
The lancet stone is not inferior^ tf5i 
the preceding. As its ^ m ^ioOr% 
it is used for sharpening sUr £L U^t 
ments, and only with oil. . ■ , be st ° l 
stone (Turkish sandstone) is u . ^i- 
all for whetting. It is gr»y ' ' jity 
transparent; when of inferior h 




TOOTHACHE— TRANSPARENCIES 



709 



s0ttl ewhat spotted with red. It is 

jally iV^^Joncs and efface the in- 
fo restore sionea MiTort1 hv +he 



T0 rS to Sd holloa caused by the 
equalities a j ^ are t d flat 

frl ction o* «w stone> ad ove r 

oa a marble d j stonej an d 

^tb ^ne well -pulveri^^ ^ & 

rubbed arc subjected to a 

curved eag<t, £ d f pulverized stone, 
^Ed into a° Tofm convenient for the 
m ° ld vltv or convexity. Tools are also 
c0 , n Ti J?th slabs of walnut or aspen 
**T colted with emery o£ different 
Ambers which produces an excellent 

setting- 



TOOL LUBRICANT: 

gee Lubricant. 

Toothache 

TOOTHACHE GUMS : 
See also Vain Killers. 

I— Paraffine 94 grains 

Burgundy pitch. . .800 grams 

Oil of cloves h fluidrachm 

Creosote,..---... 4 fluidrachm 
Melt the first two ingredients, and, 
when nearly cool, add the rest, stirring 
well. May be made into small pills or 
turned out in form of small cones or 
cylinders. 

II.— Melt white wax or spermaceti, 
2 parts, and when melted add carbolic- 
acid crystals, 1 part, and chloral-hydrate 
crystals, 2 parts; stir well until dissolved. 
While still liquid, immerse thin layers of 
earbolized absorbent cotton wool and 
allow them to dry. When required for 
U3e a small piece may be snipped off and 
slightly warmed, when it can be in- 
serted into the hollow tooth, where it 
will solidify. 

Toothache Remedy. — 

CamphoT 4 drachms 

Chloral hydrate. . 4 drachms 

Oil of cloves 2 drachms 

Oil of cajeput. . . . 2 drachms 

^hloroforrn 12 drachms 

Tincture of capsi- 
cum 24 drachms 

TOOTH CEMENTS: 

see Cements. 

T °°TH PASTES, POWDERS. SOAPS, 
ANp WASHES: 
& ee Dentifrices, 



TORTOISE-SHELL POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 

TOOTH STRAIGHTENING: 

See Watchmakers' Formulas. 

TOUCHSTONE, AQUAFORTIS FOR 

THE: 
See Aquafortis. 

TOY PAINT: 

See Paint. 

TRACING -CLOTH CLEANERS: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

TRAGACANTH, MUCILAGE OF: 

See Adhesives, under Mucilages. 

TRANSPARENCIES: 

See also Photography. 
A good method of preparing hand- 
some London transparencies is as fol- 
lows: . . 

W T hite paper is coated with a liquic 
whose chief constituent is Iceland mosi 
strongly boiled down in water to which i 
slight quantity of previously dissolvec 
gelatin is added. In applying the mass 
which should always be kept m a ho 
condition, the paper should be i cover* 
uniformly throughout After it has bee 
dried well it is smoothed on the coal* 
side and used for a proof. The ^tran 
parent colors to be used must be groun. 
In stronger varnish than the opaque one 
In order to produce a handsome re 
yellow lake and red sienna are used; t 
[one of the latter is con«deraUy wwm. 
than that of the yellow lake Wt.ere 
eost is no consideration, aurosolm n 
SS be ^ployed. f« dS 

shades, criin geranium lal 

Berlin blue. *or purp «. 
pie is the most j reliable * g J et 
sesses little .8 lo ? s - ibe assistan 
can be ° b ^ ined ^t beS e are only 
0 £ aniline col ^° ^'ransparencie 
little permanence m v 
Light, transparent green ^ ^ 

abfe. Becoune has to d or 
ing Berlin blue .ith yei 
sienna, « ree " „ no i tone has no d 

us \ d - if ^fluence Almost all brq, 
turbing J"^ 006 / transparent coin 
coloring bodies give i ^ adde r lal 
but the mort useful Jire oduce d 
and burnt umber. Gray ^ ^ 



710 



TKANSP AEENCIES — TRANSFER PROCESSES 



curs 



m „ch MM. .^"^iiJ: For this 



, re varnished on both 

of alcohol has been added to a reaay 
Iwia* solution of gelatin, kept tor use 
fn zinc vessel, the gelatin solution is 
Poured on the glass plates destined for 
the transparencies. After a quarter 01 
an hour, take the placard, moisten its 
back un formly, and lay it upon a gela- 
film which 'has meanwhile formed 
on the glass plate, where it remains 8 to 
8 days When it is to be removed from 
the plate, the edge of the gelatin film 
protruding over the edge of the placard 
fs lifted up with a dull knife, and it is 
thus drawn off. A fine, transparent gloss 
remains on the placard proper. In order 
to render the covering waterproot and 
pliable, it is given a coating of eollodion, 
which does not detract from the trans- 
parence. The glass plates and their 
frames must be cleaned of adhering gela- 
tin particles before renewed use. 

TRANSFER PROCESSES: 

To Transfer Designs. — Designs can be 
transferred on painted surfaces, cloth, 
leather, velvet, oil cloth, and linen 
sharply and in all the details with little 
trouble. Take the original design, lay 
it on a layer of paper, and trace the lines 
of design accurately with a packing 
needle, the eye of which is held by a piece 
of wood for a handle. It is necessary 
to press down well. The design be- 
comes visible on the back by an eleva- 
tion. When everything has "been accu- 
rately pressed through, take, e. g., for dark 
objects,_ whiting (formed in pieces), lay 
the design face downward on the knee 
and pass mildly with the whiting over 
the elevations; on every elevation a chalk 
line will appear. Then dust off the 
superfluous whiting with the fingers, lav 
the whiting side on the cloth to hold it 
so that it cannot slide, and pass over it 
with a soft brush. For light articles 
take powdered lead pencil, which is 
rubbed on with the finger, or limewood 
Sif 0 j T F ?- r facing use oil paint on 
cloth and India ink on linen. 



To Copv- Engravings. 

an engraving expose it in 



facsimile of 



-To make a 



a warm, closed box to the v a p ot - 
iodine, then place it, inkside downward 
on a smooth, dry sheet of clean whit 
paper, which has been brushed w i t L 
starch water. After the two prep are j 
surfaces have been in contact for a short 
time a facsimile of the engraving will be 
reproduced more or less accurately, ae . 
cording to the skill of the operator. 

To Transfer Engravings.— The beat 
way to transfer _ engraving from on e 
piece to another is to rub transfer was 
into the engraved letters. This wax is 
made of beeswax, 3 parts; tallow, 3 
parts; Canada balsam, 1 part; olive oil, 
1 part. If the wax becomes too hard, 
add a few drops of olive oil, and if too 
soft, a little more beeswax. Care should 
be taken that the wax does not remain 
on the surface about the engraving, 
otherwise the impression would be blurred. 
Then moisten a piece of paper by draw- 
ing it over the tongue and lay it on the 
engraving. Upon this is laid another 
piece of dry paper, and securing hoth 
with the thumb and forefinger of the 
left hand, so they will not be moved, 
go over the entire surface with a bur- 
nisher made of steel or bone, with a 
pointed end. This will press the lower 
paper into the engraving and cause the 
wax to adhere to it. Then the top paper 
is removed and the corner of the lower 
one gently raised. The whole is then 
carefully peeled off, and underneath 
will be found a reversed, sharp impres- 
sion of the engraving. The edges oi the 
paper are then cut so it can be httea 10 
i position on the other articles nuuW 
to that on the original one. When W 
is done lay the paper in the proPja Mg» 
lion and rub the index finger Ijfg^J 
it, which will transfer a is 
the original engraving. 11 , ^ f can 
taken two dozen or more transrei 
be made from a single impression. 

TRAPPING RABBITS: 

A mixture consisting of equai v 
of— 

Oil of anise 
Oil of caraway 

Oil of rhodium P ff e cth r e & 

smeared on traps will prove 
attracting rabbits. 

TUNGSTEN STEEL: 

See Steel. 

TURMERIC IN FOOD: 

See Foods. 

TURPENTINE STAINS : 

See Wood. 



TYPEWRITER RIBBONS— VALVES 



711 



twine in tins 

wine will nave 



^TLE (MOCK) EXTRACT: 

T ^lso Thread and Cordage. 

gee also J. greatly strength- 

's 11 SlrTng plenty of alum m 

*> ed by H laying tie twine in this solu- 

? ftter After drymg, the t. 

SSh incased tensile strength 

Typewriter Ribbons 

(See also Inks.) 

^?„u" l°"lAle pigmJnt! «. the 
into four elcB. ^ 3olv( , nt 

St** *iu dfffer with the kind o( 
P dSd, whether permanent or copy- 

ing. 

Permanent (Record) Ink.— Any finely 
divided, non-fading color may be used as 
^pigment; vaseline s the best vehicle 
and m the best corrigent. In order to 
make the ribbon last a long time with 
one inking, as much pigment as feasible 
should be used. To make black record 
ink: Take some vaseline, melt it on a 
slow fire or water bath, and incorporate 
by constant stirring as much lampblack 
as it will take up without becoming 
granular. Take from the fire and allow 
it to cool. The ink is now practical y 
finished, except, if not entirely suitable 
on trial, it may be improved by adding 
the corrigent wax in small quantity. 
The ribbon should be charged with a 
very thin, evenly divided amount of ink. 
Hence the necessity of a solvent — in this 
instance a mixture of equal parts of 
petroleum benzine and rectified spirit of 
turpentine. In this mixture dissolve a 
sufficient amount of the solid ink by 
vigorous agitation to make a thin paint. 
Try the ink on one extremity of the 
ribbon; if too soft, add a little wax to 
Qake it harder; if too pale, add more color- 
tog matter; if too hard, add more vaseline. 
If carefully applied to the ribbon, and 
the excess brushed off, the result will be 
satisfactory. 

® n the same principle, other colors 
m ^y be made into ink; but for delicate 
ll h albol ene and bleached wax 
snould be the vehicle and corrigent, 
r e3pectively. 

. The various printing inks may be used 
i prop er ly corrected. They require the 
Qtlition of vaseline to make them non- 
if f g ? n tile ribbon, and of some wax 
Li V?° soft. Where printing inks 
e ava dable. they will be found to give 



excellent results if thus modified, as the 
pigment is well milled and finely divided. 
Even black cosmetic may be made to 
answer, by the addition of some lamp- 
black to the solution in the mixture of 
benzine and turpentine. 

After thus having explained the prin- 
ciples underlying the manufacture of 
permanent inks, we can pass more rapidly 
over the subject of copying inks, which 
is governed by the same general rules. 

For copying inks, aniline colors form 
the pigment; a mixture of about 3 parts, 
of water and 1 part of glycerine, the 
vehicle; transparent soap (about \ part), 
the corrigent; stronger alcohol (about 6 
parts), the solvent. The desired aniline 
color will easily dissolve in the hot 
vehicle, soap will give the ink the neces- 
sary body and counteract the hygrc 
scopic tendency of the glycerine, and i 
the stronger alcohol the ink will readi. 
dissolve, so that it can be applied in i 
finely divided state to the ribbon, whei 
the evaporation of the alcohol will leai 
it in a thin film. There is little more 1 
add. After the ink is made and tried- 
if too soft, add a little more soap; if tc 
hard, a little more glycerine; if too pal 
a little more pigment Printer s copj 
ins ink can be utilized here likewise. 

TJsers of the typewriter should so set 
fresh ribbon as to start at the edge ncs 
est the operator, allowing it to run bac 
and forth with the same adjustment un 
exhausted along that strip; then ^sh ft tl 
ribbon forward the width of one lette 
running until exhausted, and so o 
Finally! when the whole ribbon is e 
hTustS, the color will have been ejuab 
nsed up, and on reink m & t he 
appear even in color wn« b 
patchy if some of the °himk £ as ]ied 
left here and there and tresn ins 
over it. 

UDDER I^LAM^TIOW = 

See Veterinary Formulas. 



VALVES. ™lves test each 

The ^flS^ riTe before it 
valve under Mranhc p ^ 

is sent out f ™ m , ™* e Cte d in the pipe 
frequently leak jh<m er ec te rf ^ 

linc *- - ThlS ft cases The following are 
erector in most cases. ctice s to be 

the most noteworthy b B 

voided when fatting 



th 

avoi 



VALVES 



■ -j ,,A n hle to withstand greater 
rlgld and : able to ch 
s and also.kee^ _ - n tne 

alves. 



or in tne 
This, of 
ves. 



more 

fJoTlodging under t ( , 
working parte . ot the va ^ 

^ d06S DOt n P tonK mill thread into 
n Screwing a long mill 

valve. w_ ^ d ghould ncV er be 



but a ^ W %^f; A h e pipeT when used 
cut in every case on the ^pipc, Qf 

leak very badly. 

ttt —The application of a pipe wrench 



in- 



This should never be done, as it 
var ably springs or forces the valve seats 
from tlfeir true original bearing with the 
disks. 

TV —Never place the body of a valve 
m the vise to remove the bonnet or center- 
piece from a valve, as it will squeeze 
together the soft brass body and throw 
all parts out of alignment. Properly to 
remove the bonnet or centerpiece trom 
a valve, either screw into each end of the 
valve a short piece of pipe and place one 
piece of the pipe in the vise, using a ■ 
wrench on the square of bonnet; or if the 
vise is properly constructed, place the 
square of the bonnet in same and use 
the short piece of pipe screwed in each 
end as a lever. When using a wrench 
•on square of bonnet or centerpiece, use 
a Stillson or Trimo wrench with a piece 
of tin between the teeth of the jaws and 
the finished brass. It may mark the brass 
slightly, but this is preferable to round- 
ing off all the corners with an old monkey 
wrench which is worn out and sprung. 
As the threads on all bonnets or center- 
pieces are doped with litharge or cement, 
a sharp jerk or jar on the wrench will 
start tne bonnet much more quickly 
than a steady pull. Under no circum- 
stances try to replace or remove the 
bonnet or centerpiece of a valve without 
hrst opening it wide. This will prevent 
the bending of the stem, forcing the disk 
down through the seat or stripping the 
threads on bonnet where it screws into 
body. If it is impossible to remove bon- 
net or centerpiece bv ordinary methods, 
neat the body of the valve just outside 
the thread. Then tap lightly all around 
me thread with a soft hammer. This 
method never fails, as the heat expands 
ie body ring and breaks the joint made 
"je or cement. 



V. — The application of B j 
monkey wrench to the stuffing bo x g 0 * 
valve. Many valves are returned yjUv 
the stuffing boxes split, or the threads in 
same stripped. This is due to the fa* 
that the fitter or engineer has used a W 
sized monkey wrench on this small p att 

VI. — The screwing into a valve of i 
long length of unsupported pi pe . p 
exampVe, if the fitter is doing some re _ 
pair work and starts out with a run o{ 
g-inch horizontal pipe from a 2-ineh 
valve connected to main steam header 
the pipe being about 18 feet long, after 
he has screwed the pipe tightly into the 
valve, he leaves the helper to support the 
pipe at the other end, while he gets the 
banger ready. The helper in the mean- 
time has become tired and drops his 

j shoulder on which the pipe rests about 
3 inches and in consequence the full 
I weight of this 18-foot length of pipe 
bears on the valve. The valve is badly 
sprung and when the engineer raises 
steam the next morning the valve leaks. 
"When a valve is placed in the center of a 
long run of pipe, the pipe on eaek side, 
and close to the valve, should be well 
supported. 

VII. — The use of pipe cement in 
valves. When it is necessary to use pipe 
cement in joints, this mixture should 
always be placed on. the pipe thread 
which screws into the valve, and never in 
the valve itself. If the cement 
the valve, as the pipe is screwed into 
valve it forces the cement between the 
seats and disks, where it will soon harden 
and thus prevent the valve from seating 
properly. 

VIII. — Thread _ chips 
pipe. Before a pipe 



by the lithargt 



ile m 



is 



and seal 
screwed into a 

valve it ^lould fee stood in . J<* 
position and struck fe t lltir P 1J , llp c hips 
Lmmer. This will . release the ^ 
from the thread , enttm^and loos^ ^ 



a up, 



lie 



scale inside of pipe 
containing valves is connect^ ^ ^ 
valves should all be opened ^ 
pipe well blown out before ™£ ■ sU bj 
closed. This will remove iore^ ^ 
stances which are ba b Je " 
scratch the seats and disKS. 

nd e°SJ 



d d ^ 

Ample allowance must be P r0 



IX. — Expansion a) 



all 



expansion anu <-v,^ yai^" rf 

lines, especially when br *[ ss fltt jngs a J 



d contraction m eS 



are 



included. The pipe 



the 



bras 



much more rigid and stiff ^f^g 
valves and in consequence j v es 
sion strains will relieve vise 
the weakest point, unless ow 
vided for. 



VALVES— VANILLA 



713 



nqe of wrenches or bars on 
X ^T P Pls to close the valves tightly, 
ralve w ke els be done, as it springs 

T** S lTrl valve and throws all part, out 
the entire jf\ hus maki ng the valve leak 
0 f a hgnraenMm r furn * she3 a wheel 

The ^^ v tSe properly to close against 
gufficien tly Urgg P ^ . f ^ itab l e . 

an? P re Xe S cannot be closed tightly by 
If the waives some thing between 

*i iS ^ks and seats or they have been cut 
th ^c a tcbed by foreign substances. 



Vanilla 

(Se e also Essences and Extracts.) 
The best Mexican vanilla yields only 
in The neighborhood of 1.7 per cent of 
-iiL that from Reunion and Ua- 
SSS bout ^ per cent; and that 
from Java 2.75 per cent. There seems 
to be but little connection between the 
quantity of vanillin contained in vanilla 
pods and their quality as a flavor pro- 
ducer. Mexican beans are. esteemed 
the best and yet they contain far less 
than the Java. Those from Brazil and 
Peru contain much less than those trom 
Mexico, and yet they arc considered in- 
ferior in quality to most others. -L ne 
vanillin of the market is chiefly, if not 
entirely, artificial and is made from the 
coniferin of such pines and firs as abies 
excelsa, a. pectinata, pinus cembra, and 
p. strobus, as well as from the eugenol 
of cloves and allspice. Vanillin also ex- 
ists in asparagus, lupine seeds, the seeds 
of the common wild rose, asafctida, and 
gum benzoin. 

A. good formula for a vanilla extract is 
the following: 

Vanilla 1 ounce 

Tonka. . » % ounces 

Alcohol, deodor- 
ized 33 fluidounces 

Syrup 8 fluidounces 

Cut and bruise the vanilla, afterwards 
adding and bruising the Tonka; macerate 
lor 14 days in 16 fluidounces of the alco- 
hol, with occasional agitation; pour off 
m e clear liquid and set aside; pour the 
remaining alcohol on the magma, and 
168° P mean s of a water bath to about 
xr in a closely covered vessel. 

hr? eP 11 ^ that temperature for % or 3 
ehVw' n 3train through flannel with 
i;J> .^Pressure; mix the two portions of 

add th filter tnrou * h felt - La^y- 



with pulverized magnesium carbonate, 
using from ^ to 1 drachm to each pint. 

To Detect Artificial Vanillin in 
Vanilla Extracts (see also Foods) . — There 
is no well-defined test for vanillin, but 
one can get at it in a negative way. The 
artificial vanillin contains vanillin iden- 
tical with the vanillin contained in the 
vanilla bean; but the vanilla bean, as the 
vanilla extract, contains among its many 
"extractive matters" which enter into the 
food and fragrant value of vanilla extract, 
certain rosins which can be identified with, 
certainty in analysis by a number of de- 
termining reactions. Extract made with- 
out true vanilla can be detected by nega- 
tive results in all these reactions. 

Vanilla beans contain 4 to 11 peT cent 
of this rosin. It is of a dark red to brown 
color and furnishes, about one-half the 
color of the extract of vanilla. This 
rosin is soluble in 50 per cent alcohol, 
so that in extracts of high grade, where 
sufficient alcohol is used, all rosin is kept 
in solution. In cheap extracts, where as 
little as 20 per cent of alcohol by volume 
is sometimes used, an alkali—usually 
potassium bicarbonate— is added to aic 
m getting rosin, gums, etc., m solution 
and to prevent subsequent turpiditj 
This treatment deepens the color ve*- 

materially. , . 

Place some of the extract to be exai 
ined in a glass evaporating disn ai 
evaporate tife alcohol on the water bat) 
When alcohol is removed make u 
about the original volume w th bot water 
If alkali has not been used in the nianu 
flcturc of the extract, the rosin will a 
pear ls a flocculent red to bj^J 
Acidifv with acetic acid to free rosi 

rosin and leaving a P*™^ stflIld in„ 

clear »?P« na ^fA q S2 £ai n on a filtf 
short time. Collect tJiero ^ 



. 3 yrup. 



To render this tinc- 
may be treated 



wash with water, ant 
for further tests. filter with t 

Place a portion rftM^ tiniet « 
attached rosm m a , iewci 
of dilute caustic potasn. y Ad 
dissolved to a deep-red nt 

8?" iSdon ^of the roVn in ficoh« 
Dissolve a portion oi of fe 

^ fraction add lafejr col ^ mtion 

)ortion ac 
aere is htt 
olic solutit 
Vnfor reactions with fe 
t rosms gxve acid, 
chloride or hvdrocl cd ^ 

a portion ° f baS ic lead acef 

add a few drops «* &s tQ al 

The precipitate is so u 



to one fractio 



^•eMoride; no -g. - 
produced. AO a ; n th« 



change in color 
most rosms give 
ric 



VANILLA — VARNISHES 



Hue to the excessive amount of 
S ° h fields gums, and other extractive 
org Si The filtrate from this precipi- 
naatter, xne ui co lorless. 

present in gnsat excess. 
To Detect Tonka in Vanilla Extract.— 

whUe vLJiUin is methyl protocatechm 
Ildehyde, and when t-ated sWarl^ 
yields protocatechuic acid. J ne test is 
performed by evaporating a small quan- 
tity of the extract to dryness, and melting 
the residue with caustic potash, irans- 
fer the fused mass to a test tube neu- 
tralize with hydrochloric acid, and add 
a few drops of ferric chloride solution. 
If Tonka be present in the extract, the 
beautiful violet coloration characteristic 
of salicylic acid will at once become evi- 
dent. 

Vanilla Substitute. — A substitute for 
vanilla extract is made from synthetic 
vanillin. The vanillin is simply dis- 
solved in diluted alcohol and the solution 
colored with a little caramel and sweet- 
ened perhaps with syrup. The follow- 
ing is a typical formula: 

Vanillin 1 ounce 

Alcohol 6 quarts 

Water 5 quarts 

Syrup 1 quart 

Caramel sufficient to color. 
An extract so made does not wholly 
represent the flavor of the hean; while 
vanillin is the chief flavoring constituent 
of the bean, there are present other sub- 
stances which contribute to the flavor; 
and connoisseurs prefer this combina- 
tion, the remaining members of which 
have not yet been made artificially. 



VANILLIN: 

See Vanilla. 



Varnishes 

(Sec also Enamels, Glazes, Oils, Paints, 
Kust Preventives, Stains, and Water- 
proofing.) 

f rt Zf- rniSh is , a s °l uti on of resinous matter 
h«r^ 1I,? a d - e ? r ' lim P id ®uid capable of 
bardenmg without losing its transparency. 



It is used to give a shining, transparent 
hard, and preservative covering to tv, 
finished surface of woodwork, capable of 
resisting in a greater or less degree the 
influence of the air and moisture. T^j! 
coating, when applied to metal or mineral 
surfaces, takes the name of lacquer, and 
must be prepared from rosins at once 
more adhesive and tenacious than those 
entering into varnish. 

The rosins, commonly called g lims 
suitable for varnish are of two kinds-^ 
the hard and the soft. The hard varie- 
ties are copal, amber, and the lac rosins. 
The dry soft rosins arc juniper gum 
(commonly called sandarac), mastic, and 
dammar. The elastic soft rosins are 
benzoin, elemi, anime, and turpentine. 
The science of preparing varnish con- 
sists in combining these classes of rosins 
in a suitable solvent, so that each conveys 
its good qualities and counteracts the 
bad ones of the others, and in giving the 
desired color to this solution without 
affecting the suspension of the rosins, or 
detracting from the drying and harden- 
ing properties of the varnish. 

In spirit varnish (that made with alco- 
hol) the hard and the elastic gums mustbe 
mixed to insure tenderness and solidity, 
as the alcohol evaporates at once after 
applying, leaving the varnish wholly 
dependent on the gums for the tenacious 
and adhesive properties; and if the soft 
rosins predominate, the varnish will 
remain "tacky" for a long time, Spirit 
varnish, however good and convenient tc 
work with, must always be inferior to oil 
varnish, as the latter is at the same time 
more tender and more solid, for the oil in 
oxidizing and evaporating thickens ana 
forms rosin which continues its softening 
and binding presence, whereas in a spi 
varnish the alcohol is promptly diss 
patcd, and leaves the gums on the ^ 
face of the work in a more or less igr 
lar and brittle precipitate which en v 
readily and peels off. 4 in a 

Varnish must be tender ana ^ 
manner soft. It must yield jo tf 
movements of the wood in expana ^ 
contracting with the heat or ™ h ' cet of 
must not inclose the wood ii^e _ r i 0 r 
glass. This is why oil varnish is s f , e . 
to spirit varnish. To obtain this e 
rt be dissolved w t 



ness the gums must be dwf° lve ". ir jt, b u * 
liquid not highly volatile l'ke ^Jv^a 
one which mixes with them 111 / ^reX* 
permanently to counteract tneu ^ ot 
friability. Such solvents are « < pen- 
lavender, spike, rosemary, and W 
tine, combined with linseed °J iss0 lved 
vehicle in which the rosins are ^ jo 
must be soft and remain so u 



VARNISHES 



715 



keeP the JJg ^ Any varnish from 
#& c3 solvent has completely dried 
which the *°^ ssity become hard and 
Tut ^/chS^ff- But, on the other 
gl*ss7 vafnish remains too soft and 
EimA^f'iS "cake" in time and 

" tacky ' the effect desired, 
destroy tf^ n f his c ] OS e observers if not 
Aside from this, ^ it 

c hemi f I re IsTrable to dissolve these 
is ^aHSuid closely related to them 
f°T tScSl composition, rather than in a 
no chemical relation and which 
bqU i ht changes certain properties, of 
do doubt c ^J g cutg them Uto solution 

Xvarni X rosins in a liquid very un- 
vi them no ■ ia °' ie in w * ich they 
ou ckt aid Sghly sol able. Modern ef- 
fort hi been bent on inventing a cheap 
'ISf easily prepared, that will take 
S p ace of oil varnish, and the market 
^flooded with benzine, carbon bisul- 
phide and various ether products which 
are next to worthless where wearing and 
durable properties are desired. 

Alcohol will hold in solution only 
about one-third of its weight in rosins. 
Turpentine must be added always last to 
spirit varnish. Turpentine m its clear 
recently distilled state will not mix witn 
alcohol, hut must first be oxidized by 
exposing it to the air in an uncorked 
bottle until a small quantity taken there- 
from mixes perfectly with alcohol. This 
usually takes from a month to six weeks. 
Mastic must be added last of all to the 
ingredients of spirit varnish, as it is not 
wholly soluble in alcohol but entirely, so- 
la a solution of rosins in alcohol. Spirit 
varnishes that prove too hard and brittle 
may he improved by the addition of 
either of the oils of turpentine, castor 
seed, lavender, rosemary, or spike, in the 
proportion required to bring the varnish 
to the proper temper. 

Coloring « Spirit " Varnishes. — In 
modern works the following coloring 
substances are used, separately and 
K* blends; Saffron (brilliant golden 
plow), dragon's blood (deep reddish 
orown), gamboge (bright yellow), Soco- 
mne or Bombay aloes (liver brown), 

Za i ' ivor y' and bone black ( bla ck), 
vl ? lwoQ d, pterocarpus santalinus, the 
neartwood (dark red), Indian sandal-' 
xZa Pterocarpus indica. the heart- 
wo °d (orange red), bra 



mica, the heart 
brazil wood (dark 



yellow), myrrh (yellowish to reddish 
brown; darkens on exposure), madder 
(reddish brown), logwood (brown), red 
scammony rosin (light red), turmerk 
(orange yellow), and many others ac- 
cording to the various shade3 desired. 

M a nu facturing Hints. — Glass, coarse- 
ly powdered, is often added to varnish 
when mixed in large quantities for the 
purpose of cutting the rosins and pre- 
venting them from adhering to the bot- 
tom and sides of the container. "When 
possible, varnish should always be com- 
pounded without the use of heat, as this 
carbonizes and otherwise changes the 
constituents, and, besides, danger always 
ensues from the highly inflammable 
nature of the material employed. How- 
ever, when heat is necessary, a water 
bath should always be used; the varnish 
should never fill the vessel over a half to 
three-fourths of its capacity. 

The Gums Used in Making Varnish.-_ 
Juniper gum or true sandarac comes in 
long, yellowish, dusty tears, and requires 
a high temperature for its manipulation 
in oil. The oil must be so hot as t» 
scorch a feather dipped into it, befoi 
this gum is added; otherwise the gum ; 
burned. Because of this, j uniper gum j 
usually displaced in oil varnish by em 
dammar. Both of these gums by the 
dryness, counteract the elasticity of oj 
as well as of other gums. The ^usua 
sandarac of commerce is a br ttle yeUoj 
transnarent rosin from Africa, mor 
sotuSe in turpentine .than m alcoho 
Ttl Pxcess renders varnish hard and brit- 
tie Cominercial sandarac, is also oft« 
a mixture of the African -sm with dan 
rnar or hard Indian copal, the place 
ETaW-u ? o 3 in being «™bm -t*. 

by true ) UM P. eI th f^ ops , and is aim. 
the pounce of » e Jf°P s - turpe nt h 

?T uUe , abo tagdy tak° « the place 
Dammar also lar & tlJ L- white ambe 
tender copal gum «™g e ^ in . T 
white incense, and often apP lie 

latter three names are also mi ff &; 

to a mixture ? f . °^^h When gui 
somchmes used invarn is ^ m 
dammar u used aa Uie m an 

varnish, it point, but n 

brought to a boUmg • g 

thawed. Th « r vaT ni s h soft ar 

that renders^ damgj' s above . 

"tacky" if u f*™ti£e bus a tendency 1 
Venetian turpentine 1 , ^ ^ x 
render varms h tacxy . effe( , t JS i 

skUlfullv counteracted^ fc 

£ Toy a degree B o n f dampness has a to 



VARNISHES 



j nftxf io swe H, and must in such cases 
bfSvoWe? Elemi, a fragrant rosxj 
?rom Egypt, in time grows hard and 
L Hi is not so soluble in alcohol as 
br -™' which 1 highly esteemed for its 
SEE W« q5ait£». Copal is a name 
rather Tndiscriminately to various 
Sims and rosins. The East Indian or 
Scan is the tender copal, and is softer 
„d more transparent than the other 
JSfeSs; when pure it is freely soluble 
in oil of turpentine or rosemary. Hard 
copal cle S ?n its best form from Mexico 
ana is not readily soluble in oil unless 
first fused The brilliant, deep-red col- 
or of old varnish is said to be Wd on 
dragon's blood, but not the kind that 
comes in sticks, cones, etc. (which is 
always adulterated), but the clear, pure 
tear/deeper in color than a carbuncle, 
and as crystal as a ruby. 1 his is sel- 
dom seen in the market, as is also the 
tear of gamboge, which, mixed with the 
tear of dragon's blood, is said to be the 
basis of the brilliant orange and gold 
varnish of the ancients. 

Of all applications used to adorn and 
protect the surface of objects, oil var- 
nishes or lacquers containing hard ros- 
ins are the best, as they furnish a hard, 
glossy coating which does not crack and 
is very durable even when exposed to wind 
and rain. 

To obtain a varnish of these desirable 
qualities the best old linseed oil, or 
varnish made from it, must be combined 
with the residue left by the dry distilla- 
tion of amber or very hard copal. This 
distillation removes a quantity of vola- 
tile oil amounting to one-fourth or one- 
fifth of the original weight. The residue 
is pulverized and dissolved in hot linseed- 
oil varnish, forming a thick, viscous, 
yellow-brown liquid, which, as a rule, 
must be thinned with oil of turpentine 
before being applied. 

Hard rosin oil varnish of this sort may 
conveniently be mixed with the solution 
of asphalt m the oil of turpentine with 
the aid of the simple apparatus described 
below, as the stiffness of the two liquids 
makes hand stirring slow and laborious. 
A cask is mounted on an axle which 
projects through both heads, but is 
inclined to the axis of the cask, so that 
when the ends of the axle are set in bear- 
ings i and the cask is revolved, each end 
of the cask will rise and fall alternately, 

cask will be thorough!/ mixed and 
churned in a shnrt- tW^o t-u 1, :„ 



short time." The cask i; 
nish"« ir S? m / ed ^ th . th e two thick var- 
SlAaVfc \t ro ? 1 m , in ""seed oil and 
asphalt in the oil of turpentine) in the 



desired proportion, and after these h a > 
been intimately mixed by turning 7^ 
cask, a sufficient quantity of rectifi*/ 
of tur~— ' : *""" 



rpentme to give proper consbten 
ded and the rotation is prm+;„.. 



oil 

is added and the rotation is continue 
until the mixture is perfectly uniform 

To obtain the best and most durahl 
result with this mixed oil, rosin, and as 
pha.lt varnish it is advisable to dilute it 
freely with oil of turpentine and to a p P W 
3 or 3 coats, allowing each coat to drv 
before the next is put on. In this way a 
deep black and very glossy surface i s 
obtained which cannot be distinguished 
from genuine Japanese lacquer. 

Many formulas for making these 
mixed asphalt varnishes contain rosin— 
usually American rosin. The result is 
the production of a cheaper but inferior 
varnish. The addition of such soft 
rosins as elemi and copaiba, however, is 
made for another reason, and it im- 
proves the quality of the varnish for 
certain purposes. Though these rosins 
soften the lacquer, they also make it more 
elastic, and therefore more suitable for 
coating leather and textile fabrics, as it 
does not crack in consequence of repeated 
bending, rolling, and folding. 

In coloring spirit varnish the alcohol 
should always be colored first to the 
desired shade before mixing with the 
rosin, except where ivory or bane black 
is used. If the color is taken from a 
gum, due allowance for the same must 
be made in the rosins of the varnish. 
For instance, in a varnish based on 
mastic, 10 parts, and tender copal, 5 
parts, in 100 parts, if this is to be colored 
with, say, 8 parts of dragon's blood (or 
any other color gum), the rosins must t>e 
reduced to mastic, S parts, and tender 
copal, 4 parts. Eight parts of color gum 
are here equivalent to 3 parts of varmsn 
rosin. This holds true with ga» b °P 
aloes, myrrh, and the other gum tomb 
used for their color. This seeming ^ 
proportion is due to the inert ma " e * t 
gum insoluble in alcohol, always p 
in these gum rosins. 

Shellac Varnish.— This is made _m tj 
general proportion of 3 pounds oi _ 
to a gallon of alcohol the color, te £ 
etc., to be determined by w nature " f 
ments of the purchaser, and the 1 1 [o be 
the wood to which the va-rnis 11 te j» ; 
applied. Shellac varnish is us "^j, r , afiB 
pcre d with sandarac, elemi,, dam _ 
the oil of linseed, turpentine, r 



rosemary. 



sio» 



Various impurities held m su>ij- pr e- 
in shellac varnish may be e. J ^ 
cipitated by the gradual addition 



VARNISHES 



717 



, f r,*alic acid, stirrir g the varnish 
!i? solution, and then setting it 
to aid tbeii so jt the impurities 

aside ^ rn ^ m0 re acid should he used 
S a u is really necessary. 

r Varniqhintr. — !• Avoid as far 
^■fi TSp^ations with the 
* 3 P-Tis do not dilute them with oil of 
tarpentine. an dleast ]f ^ 

to expedite the dry g conseq uence of 
has become too th ck ^ 

fault Ltn a g ddhion of hot, well-boiled 
, r - eCCl L oil ,'arnish and oil of turpentine. 
Kefd oil Vanish or oil of turpentine 
YS I to the varnish at a common tem- 
l.ture renders it streaky (flacculent) 
P'd dim and has an unfavorable influ- 
Sifatodrj-ing; oil of turpentine takes 

awav the gloss of varnish. 
■ ^Wishing must be done only on 
smooth, clean surfaces, if a fine, mirror- 
like gloss is desired , 

3 Varnish must be poured only into 
clean vessels, and from these never back 
into the stationary vessels, if it has been 
in contact with the brush. Use only dry 
brushes for varnishing, which are not 
moist with oil of turpentine or linseed oil 
or varnish. , 

i. Apply varnishes of all kinds as uni- 
formly as possible; spread them out 
evenly on the surfaces so that they form 
neither too thick nor too thin a layer. 
If the varnish is put on too thin the coat- 
ing shows no gloss; if applied too thick 
it does not get even and does not form a 
smooth surface, but a wavy one. 

5. Like all oil-paint coatings, every 
eoat of varnish must be perfectly dry 
before a new one is put on; otherwise 
it is likely that the whole work will 
show cracks. The consumer of varnish 
is only too apt to blame the varnish for 
all defects which appear in his work or 
develop after some time, although this 
can. only be proven in rare cases. As a 
rule, the ground was not prepared right 
aQ dthe different layers of paint were not 
sufficiently dry, if the surfaces crack after 
a comparatively short time and have the 
a Ppearance of maps. The cracking of 
Paint must not be confounded with the 
cracking of the varnish, for the cracking 
oi the paint will cause the varnish to 
wack prematurely. The varnish has to 



slowly, and during the drying must be 
absolutely protected from dust, flies, etc., 
until they have reached that stage when 
we can pass the back of the hand or a 
finger over them- without sticking to it. 

The production of faultless varnishing 
in most cases depends on the accuracy 
of the varnisher, on the treatment of his 
brush, his varnish pot, and all the other 
accessories. A brush which still holds 
the split points of the bristles never var- 
nishes clear; they are rubbed off easily 
and spoil the varnished work. A brush 
which has never been used does not pro- 
duce clean work; it should be tried several 
times, and when it is found that the var- 
nishing accomplished by its use is neat 
and satisfactory it should be kept very 
carefully. 

The preservation of the brush is thus 
accomplished: First of all do not place it 
in oil or varnish, for this would form a 
skin, parts of which would adhere to it, 
rendering the varnished surface unclean 
and grainy; besides these skins there are 
other particles which accumulate in thf 
corners and cannot be removed by dust- 
ing off; these will also injure the work. 
In order to preserve the brush properly, 
insert it in a glass of suitable size through 
a cork in the middle of which a hole has 
been bored exactly fitting the handle. 
Into the glass pour a mixture of equal 
parts of alcohol and oil of turpentine, 
and allow only the point of the brush 
to touch the mixture, if at all, It tne 
cork is air-tight the brush cannot dry 
Z vapor of g oil of turpentine and spirit 
From time to time the liquids in the glas. 
should be replenished. , 

If the varnish remains m the varnisl 
receptacle^a little alcohol may be poui« 
on which can do the varmsj nc . harm 
At all events the varnish will be pre 

both fat «^^- w ?^dry» thick 
a meager varnish, even w ^ , 

After complete dry! n oi tf 

varnish it sometl ^ it 7 P b Tu e dim, < 
S h becomes white, biu . , 



iana more than the paint; it protects the 
fert i i as il: is transparent, the de- 
varn-t e P aint are visible through the 
torm 5,' whlch frequently causes one to 
vw i f err oneous conclusion that the 
va rm s h baa «wj 



6. AH 



has cracked. 

varnish coatings must drj 



varnisii tl] . ns white on ca 

blind- If varnu ^ ti™ £ , g flt fau1| 

posure to. at enough or > 

The varnish is «ther nO abie ^ 

contains a f osin T ^ whitening occurs 
work (copal), lne w ^ s 

S Sbf rem^do^ by rubbing of 

the varnish. 



VARNISHES 



■ Tnatine with strong- 

^Lc g and K i" LpeciX valuable for 
surface, aao r work . Ihe 

as a n earthenware eru, «^ ^ 

Cicl,t ST? k of ofsii 1%, and then 
gemmae (rock or jo as w ,]l 

pourmg in as . rauc * ^P rm *w h the lat- 

cienuv cool the amber is taken from the 
puT Ynd immersed in 
eliminate the sal gemmae, after v\ men 
the amber L put back into the pot and is 
Igain hea r ted P over the fire till the amber 
is dissolved. When the operation is 
finished the amber is removed from the 
pot and spread out upon a clean marble 
slab to drv until all the water has evap- 
orated, and is afterwards exposed to a 
gentle heat to entirely deprive it ot hu- 
midity- 
Asphalt Varnishes. — Natural asphalt is 
not entirely soluble in any liquid. Al- 
cohol dissolves only a small percentage 
of it, ether a much larger proportion. 
The best solvents are benzol, benzine, 
rectified petroleum, the essential oils, 
and chloroform, which leave only a 
small residue undissolved. The em- 
ployment of ether as a solvent is im- 
practicable because of its low boiling 
point, 97° F., and great volatility. The 
varnish would dry almost under the 
brush. Chloroform is not open to this 
objection, but it is too expensive for 
ordinary use. Rectified petroleum is a 
good solvent of asphalt, but it is not a 
desirable ingredient of varnish because, 
though the greater part of it soon 
evaporates, a small quantity of less 
volatile substances, which is usually 
present in even the most thoroughly 
rectified petroleum, causes the varnish 
to remain "tacky" for a consi derable 
time and to retain a disagreeable odor 
much longer. Common coal-tar benzine 
is also a good solvent and has the merit 
of cheapness, but its great volatility 
makes the varnish dry too quickly for 
convenient use, especially in summer. 



The best solvent, probably, i s 0 ;\ Q , 
turpentine, which dissolves asphalt al 
moS t completely, producing a varnish 
which dries quickly and forms a perfect 
coating if the turpentine has been well 



coating if the turpentine nas been well 
rectified. The turpentine should he a 
"water white," or entirely colorless 
liquid of strong optical refractive power 
and agreeable odor, without a trace of 
smokiness. A layer I of an inch in depth 
should evaporate in a short time so com- 
pletely as to leave no stain on a gl asa 

But even solutions of the best Syrian 
asphalt in the purest oil of turpentine, 
if they are allowed to stand undisturbed 
for a long time in large vessels, deposit 
a thick, semi-fluid precipitate which a 
large addition of oil of turpentine fails to 
convert into a uniform thin liquid. It 
may be assumed that this deposit con- 
sists of an insoluble or nearly insoluble 
part of the asphalt which, perhaps, has 
been deprived of solubility by the action 
of light. Hence, in order to obtain a 
uniform solution, this thick part must be 
removed. This can be done, though 
imperfectly, by carefully decanting the 
solution after it has stood for a lone 
time in large vessels. This tedious and 
troublesc me process may be avoided by 
filtering the solution as it is made, by 
the following simple and quite satis- 
factory method: The solution is made in 
a large cask, lying on its side, with a 
round hole about 8 inches in 
its upper bilge. This opening is p» 
vided with a well-fitting cover, t tte 
bottom of winch a hook a attached 
The asphalt is placed in a bag < o clo* 
woven canvas, which is inclosed n 
second bag of the same fi[)e d, 
diameter of the double bag, « en 
should be such as to ^°Vtlw 
easily through the opening m tne 
and its length such that, when it g 
on the hook, its lower end is .an ^ 
inches above the bottom oi . i d oil 
The cask is then filled with rect ^ 
of turpentine, closed, ana g{ (ur . 
turbed for several days. I** . ^ fa 
pentine penetrates into tne ffj w]l j c h 
solves the asphalt, and the so u tioi , ^ 
is heavier than pure oil ot tu ^ t0 
exudes 

through the eanva, . ■» ts o 
the bottom of the cask. x»« fob, or 
the asphalt which are quite ms peD ti»& 
merely swell in the oil of tu r d # 
eannot pass through the canvas. fe t 
removed with the bag, le fJ"?| po^J 
solution. When all folf* Jfitb *J 
have been dissolved the ba «j' th e <Jr*J, 
cover, is raised and nung u nha 11 J 
ing to drain. If pulverized asp 



VARNISHES 



719 



A the toag is found to contain 
US6 1S1 quantity of. semi-fluid 
nly * s ffi thinned with oil of 
residue. , j a pplied wjth a stlff b /^ h 
t«f n S abl? force, forms a thick, 

*f^S£ting. and very dumble C ° at " 
^^000^' of asphalt to oil of 
^ he - s so chosen a. to produce,, in 
- varnish, which 



jfcurpent 
tliC cas 

™ a ? ^oTlurpTntinc. l'or use, it 
rfust tWck enough to cover 



=lr a pretty thick 
LSk ' " 3 d to any desjred degree by 



Mf^S^Jj conceal the metal 
brlg ht tin a" u« ^ dr th]g CQat 

J^JtSS ^ but it adheres /ery firmly, 
1S very , creases m hardness, 

and , tlvTcause of the effect of light. 

i t ^ removing an old coat of asphalt 
5 ni 5 . Xch liU dissolve in tur- 
S e even after long immersion, and 
usSy must he removed by mechanical 

m For 'a perfect, quick-drying asphalt 
varnish the purest asphalt must be used, 
IS as Syrian, or the best Tnnic ad. 
Trinidad seconds, though better than 
some other asphalts, yield an inferior 
varnish, owing to the presence of mipur- 

lt6 0f artificial asphalt, the best ( for this 
purpose is the sort known as mineral 
caoutchouc," which is especially suit- 
able for the manufacture of elastic 
dressings for leather and other flexible 
substances. For wood and metal it is 
less desirable, as it never becomes as hard 
as natural asphalt. 



FORMULAS: 

I.— A solution of 1 part of caoutchouc 
in 16_ parts of oil of turpentine or kero- 
sene is mixed with a solution of 16 parts 
of copal in 8 parts of linseed-oil varnish. 
To the mixture is added a solution of 
i parts of asphalt in 3 or 4 parts of lin- 
seed-oil varnish diluted with 8 or 10 parts 
of oil of turpentine, and the whole is 
faltered. This is a fine elastic varnish. 

11. — Coal-tar asphalt, American as- 
phalt, rosin, benzine, each 20 parts; 
lmseed-oil varnish, oil of turpentine, coal- 
tar oil, eacu 10 p ar i s; binoxide of man- 
ganese, roasted lampblack, each 2 parts. 
•Lne solid ingredients are melted to- 
gether and mixed with the linseed-oil 
varnish, into which the lampblack has 
|f en stirred, and, finally, the other 
"quids are added. The varnish is 
atr ame d through tow. 

ai?u icycle f Varnish.— This is a spirit var- 
' aQ . preferably made by a cold proc- 



ess, and requires less technical knowl- 
edge than the preparation of fatty var- 
nishes. The chief dependence is upon 
the choice of the raw materials. These 
raw materials, copal, shellac, etc., are 
first broken up small and placed in a 
barrel adapted for turning upon an axis, 
with a hand crank, or with a belt and 
pulley from a power shaft. The barrel 
is of course simply mounted in a frame of 
wood or iron, whichever is the most con- 
venient. After the barrel has received 
its raw material, it may be started and 
kept revolving for 24 hours. Long in- 
terruptions in the turning must be care- 
fully avoided, particularly in summer, 
for the material in the barrel, when at 
rest, will, at this season, soon form a 
large lump, to dissolve which will con- 
sume much time and labor. To prevent 
the formation of a semi-solid mass, as 
well as to facilitate the dissolving of the 
gum, it would be well to put some hard, 
smooth stones into the barrel with the 
varnish ingredients. 

Bicycle Dipping Varnish (Baking Var- 
nish) —Take 50 parts, by weight, - 
Syrian asphalt; 50 parts, by weight, 
copal oil; 50 parts, by weight, ot tnicl 
varnish oil, and 105 parts, by wei 
turpentine oil, to which add 7 parts b; 
weight, of drier. When the asphalt i 
melted through and through, add 
copal oil and heat it until the water 
driven off, as copal oil is seldom fr 
from water. Now take it the fi 
qnd allow t to cool; add first tne sice 
"ve, th« the turpentine »d hnseed » 
which have been K=™Mcyc f^Zlis 

bailee d« 

Black Varnishes.— Black spirit lacquer 
■ Kiacit 1 v If • + i,~ wood and metal in- 
are employed m the wooa ^ 



the 



hl5 



dustries. 'Different kindle proOuc 

according to ^^^e.^lack br; 
black Japanese varnisnes, oi 

iant varnishes. j __Sculpta 

varnish, 5 parte, : «u b]ue 
parts; aniline black ^ part, 
P 0015 parts " ^copal is employed 
pared with ^V^^ally good quaht 
Slack lacquer of especially j ^ 

is obtained. Usuany r 
^vender is added. ^ 

II. — Shellac ' ' * g par ts 

Borax o parts 

Glycerine. .- g rta . 

Aniline black &Q £ artg 

Water....- •• ■• ■• t a < 

Dissolve the borax m the wa 



730 

ifectedfthen :.<M the <".<,,■ 
This fs a mat-black varnish 
*fer" Blackboards^ 
these boards mix * liter ti.uo 



VARNISHES 



and heat until solution is 
idd the other ingredients. 



blackening 
5 pints) good 
lins) shellac, 



6 * ram ?« Lain fine chalk free from 
gTa T ft pS Ti nes are to be drawn mix 
sand. 1± re(1 unci * .Vf „f Te a lead in 
the necessary Quantity ot rea ks 

alcohol and shellac. 



Bookbinders' Varnishes.-- 



Shellac. . . 
Mastic, . • 
Sandarac, 
Camphor. 
Benzoin. . 
Alcohol 72.5 



I 

Per 
Cent 

14.5 
6.0 
G.O 
1.0 



II 

Per 
Cent 
6.5 
2.0 
13.0 



III 

Per 
Cent 
13.5 

0.5 



IV v 

Per Per 
Cent Cent 



6.3 8 
. . 1 
1 .3 1 



78.5 86.0 79.2 



13.7 
75.8 
of lavender, 



VII 


VIII 


IX 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Cent 


Cent 


Cent 


13.0 


9.0 




0*7 






0.7 








18.0 


6.6 






13.0 




2.0 


6.6 


85.6 


71.0 


73.8 



I 



Scent with oil of benzoin, - - 

or of rosemary. Other authors give the 
following recipes: 
VI 
Per 
Cent 

Blond shellac. 11. 5 

White shellac . 1 1 . 5 

Camphor 

Powdered 
sugar 

Sandarac. .... 

Mastic 

Venice turpen- 
tine 

Alcohol 77.0 

All solutions may be prepared in the 

cold, but the fact that mastic does 

not dissolve entirely, must not be lost 

sight of. 

Bottle Varnish. — Bottles may be made 
to exclude light pretty well by coating 
them with asphaltum lacquer or varnish. 
A formula recommended for this purpose 
is as follows: Dissolve asphaltum, 1 part, 
in light coal-tar oil, 2 parts, and add to 
the solution about 1 per cent of castor oil. 
This lacquer dries somewhat slowly, but 
adheres very firmly to the glass. As- 
phaltum lacquer may also be rendered 
less brittle by the addition of elemi. 
Melt together asphaltum, 10 parts, and 
elemi, 1 part, and dissolve the cold fused 
mass m light coal-tar oil, 12 parts. 

Araber-colored bottles for substances 
acted upon by the actinic rays of light 
may be obtained from almost any manu- 
facturer of bottles. 

Can Varnish.— Dissolve shellac, 15 
parts, by weight; Venice turpentine, 2 



parts, by weight; and sandarac, 8 paw, 
by weight, m spirit, 75 parts, by Weight. 

Copal Varnish.— Very fine copal Var 
rush for those parts of carriages wWi 
require the highest polish, is prepared as 
follows: 

I. — Melt 8 pounds best copal and roixwiH, 
gO pounds very clear matured oil. Then 
boil 4 to 5 hours at moderate heat until it 
draws threads; now mix with 35 pounds 
oil of turpentine, strain and keep For use 
This varnish dries rather slowly, there- 
fore varnishers generally mix it one-half 
with another varnish, which is prepared 
by boiling for 4 hours, 20 pounds clear 
linseed oil and 8 pounds very pure, white 
anime rosin, to which is subsequently 
added 35 pounds oil of turpentine. 
II. — Mix the following two varnishes: 

(a) Eight pounds copal, 10 pounds lin- 
seed oil, i pound dried sugar of lead, 3a 
pounds oil of turpentine. 

(b) Eight pounds good anime rosin, 10 
pounds linseed oil, \ pound zinc vitriol, 
35 pounds oil of turpentine. Each al 
these two sets is boiled separately into 
varnish and strained, and then both are 
mixed. This varnish dries in 6 hours in 
winter, and in 4 hours in summer. Fo< 
old articles which are to be re- varnished 
black, it is very suitable. 

Elastic Limpid Gum Varnishes.— I— 
In order to obtain a limpid rubber 
varnish, it is essential to have the rubber 
entirely free from water. This can .be 
obtained by cutting the rubber into thin 
strips, or better, into shreds as fine* 
possible, and drying them at a temp r 
. j c ~~ n rnti i n 199° F tor several 
ature of from 104 to VS* ^ , 

are water tree, tneu 



days or until they 
proceed as follows' 

II. — Disso 
rubber in 8 parts 



led 



lve 1 part of the desicca 
parts of petroleum ether 
(benzine) and add 2 parts ot . 



varnish and stir m 
dried rubber with 



pal 

dr7eover2part^f 



ether; 



of 

mtiltbe^ber 



1 part 

stand for several days or until % 
has taken up as much ot tue ei . 
will, then liquefy by standing ra^ ^ 
of moderately warm water. ^ cU t 
warm, stir in % parts of lmsee 
with % parts of turpentine on. 
ENAMEL VARNISHES : < . {s 0 f a 
Antiseptic Enamel.— This c°_ oJti aia d 



i,, r rosiflj 

solution' of spirituous gum '< ,.' jjc £ 
copal, with addition of »u J r eJ 
etc. Its purpose is mainly t fflJ1?0 us 
tion or removal of mold J r oP tBing 
formation. The salicylic : a^d du jjS 
in the mass acts as an antwjP n fu^ 
the painting, and destroys 
present. 




VARNISHES 



721 



,u Tub Enamel Unaffected by Hot 
Water.—-^- * d copper lining of a bath 

tub ' which oU paint will adhere Firs 
film to whicl F w th a lutl of 

^f Te r mSnk and dry the surface 
soda or a mm , ^ a wl d e , soft 

lh °rffl pSs^by weight, of chloride 
brush equal p ^ coppcr? d { 

of c °PP-" r ' dissolved in 64 parts, by 
annnonidc, whgn dl3SO I ve d add 

by weight, of commercial muri- 
1 part, oy b solution must be kept 
^llor earthenware. It will dry m 
m glassui _ eiving a grayish-black 
^Lto whS' pSnt will Irmly adhere 
C °&rininig coat should be white lead 

i ■ / with turpentine, with only just 
il T -it Led oil to bind it. After 
jfiKto ^ ughly dry, apply one or more 
coat of special bath-tub enamel, or a 
It paint made by mixing coach colors 

t?d a in Japan with 

nf the best quality. Most nrst ciass 
InuLturersVve special grades that 
will stand hot water. 

11— The following preparation pro- 
duces a brilliant surface on metals and 
b very durable, resisting the effect ot 
blows without scaling or chipping oil, 
and being therefore highly suitable tor 
cyclss and any other articles exposed to 
shock " 

For' the manufacture of U gallons, 11 
pounds of red copper, 8.8 pounds of yel- 
low copper, 4.4 pounds of hard steel, and 
4.4s pounds of soft steel, all in a com- 
minuted condition, are well washed in 
petroleum or mineral spirit, and are then 
treated with concentrated sulphuric acid 
in a lead-lined vessel, with continued 
stirring for 2 hours. After 12 hours' 
rest the sulphuric acid is neutralized 
with Javel extract, and the fine powder 
left in the vessel is passed through a silk 
sieve to remove any fragments of metal, 
then ground along with linseed oil, ivory 
Mack, and petroleum, the finely divided 
niass being afterwards filtered through 
nannel and incorporated with a mixture 
01 Bombay gum, 22 pounds- Damascus 
gum, ii pounds; Judea bitumen, 22 
Pounds; Norwegian tar rosin, 11 pounds; 
atld 11 pounds of ivory black ground 
j^ry fine j n re fi tled petroleum. When 
Perfectly homogeneous the mass is again 
pered, and is then ready for use. It is 
jam on with a brush, and then fixed by 
xpoaure to a temperature of between 
?" u arid 800° F. The ivory black may 
Replaced by other coloring matters, 
*ecotdmg to requirements. 



A Color Enamel. — On the piece to be 
enameled apply oil varnish or white lead, 
and add a powder giving brilliant re- 
flections, such as diamantine, brilliantine, 
or argentine. Dry in a stove. Apply a 
new coat of varnish. Apply the powder 
again, and finally heat in the oven. 



Afterwards, apply several layers of 
varnish; dry each layer in the oven. 
Apply pumice stone in powder or tripoli, 
and finally apply _ a layer of Swedish 
varnish, drying in the oven. This 
enamel does not crack. It adheres per- 
fectly, and is advantageous for the pieces 
of cycles and other mobiles. 

Cold Enameling. — This style of enam- 
eling is generally employed for repairing 
purposes. The various colors are either 
prepared with copal varnish and a little 
oil of turpentine, or else they are melted 
together with mastic and a trifle of oil of 
spike. In using the former, the surface 
usually settles down on drying, and 
ordinarily the latter is preferred, which 
is run on the cracked-off spot by warming 
the article. After the cooling, file the 
cold enamel off uniformly, and restore 
the gloss by quickly drawing it through 
the flame. For black cold enamel med 
mastic together with lampblack, which is 
easily obtained by causing the flame o 
a wick dipped into linseed oil to touch 
piece of tin. 

White.— White lead or flake white. 
Red.— Carmine or cinnabar (vermil 

ion). . , , 

Blue —Ultramarine or Prussian blue 

Green.— Scheele's green or Schwei" 

furt green. 

Brown.— Umber. 

Yellow.-Ocher or chrome yellow. 
The different shades are produced b 
mixing the colors. 

Enamel for Vats, etc -Jwo differe 

enfmels ^^fig^^X* 
th e ground °n^° r ^ P- a 
being sc^whaf * ard f d ^ 
Ground enamel is prepa j 
in an envied trontortue ^ 
bro wn .Celiac, WSPg 8 ! hony , a 
turpentine, vessel 4,500 p* 

warming m aao *"^ A s soon as t 
of spirit (90 pei [^ move the pot fro 
rosins are j^^SSrft in portions 
the fire and add" be P < t tbat t 

250 P^ts f * tna eombin 
spirit added " c ° I irr i ng before addi 
with the rosms by - ^ pirit is add. 
anv more. , w , "; n f 0 r several 

"" ™„ lh tIe W w!u.Taih <U fire aho 
utes on tne w 



VARNISHES 



3 , I on account of danger of fire), 
e avo dea, i If ye U ow color is 

*M al J°Idd ye" low ocher/in which case 
d . esire t^r S£ also be used as floor 



l iop enamel (hard) consists of 500 
elkU 135 parts Fr ench oil of tui- 
ne and 3,500 parts spirit (90 per 
I? BoHing in the water bath until 
tluUoa appears dear can on y be 



rK^ also be used 

varnish. 
The 

^Tnd/sTsoTpa^' -Piri«. 0>0 J- 
jen 

SveT -ray with earthy eerussite, and 
ome lampblack. Before pamtmg dry 
ouf the vats and putty up the pints with 
strin of dough which is prepared from 
.round enamel and finely sifted charcoal 
Thrown cod ashes, and apply the 
enamel after the putty is dry. The 
varnish dries quickly is odorless and 
tasteless, and extraordinarily durable 
If a little annealed soot black is added 
to this vat enamel, a fine iron varnish is 
obtained which adheres very firmly. 
Leather (spattering leather on _ car- 
riages) can also be nicely varnished 
with it. 

Finishing Enamel for White Furni- 
ture, — Various methods are practiced 
in finishing furniture in white enamel, 
and while numerous preparations in- 
tended for the purpose named are gen- 
erally purchasable of local dealers in 
paint supplies, it is often really difficult, 
and frequently impossible, to obtain 
a first-class ready-made enamel. To 
prepare such an article take ^ pint of 
white lead and add to it J pint of pure 
turpentine, J gill of pale coach Japan, 
and ^ gill of white dammar varnish. 
Mix all the ingredients together thor- 
oughly. Apply with a camePs-hair brush, 
and for large surfaces use a 2-inch double 
thick brush. There should be at least 
three coats for good work, applied after 
an interval of 24 hours between coats; 
a &d for strictly high-class work four coats 
will be necessary. Each coat should be 
put on thin and entirely free from brush 
marks, sandpapering being carefully done 
upon each coat of pigment. Work that 
Has been already painted or varnished 
needs to be cut down with, say, No. * 
sandpaper, and then smoothed fine with 
fr£ J P ^ 6r - Then thm white lead to a 
r^r- nR , COnSlstenc y with turpentine, 

sirW ' af>p,y , two coats of ^ to the 
rface. Give each coat plenty of time 



to harden (36 hours should suffice) a n 
which sandpapering with No. H 'nt 
had best be done. Ordinarily, U p 0 £ f« 
coats of white lead, the enamel finish 
above detailed, may be successfully n ^ 
dueed. For the fine, rich enamel fin 
adapted to rare_ specimens of furnhv, 
and developed in the mansions of th 
multimillionaires, a more elaborate anJ 
complex process becomes necessary. 



Quick-Drying Enamel Colors, — En 
amel colors which dry quickly, but r c I 
mnin elastic so that applied on tin thev 
will stand stamping without crackin« off 
can be produced as follows: 

In a closed stirrer or rolling cask place 
21.5 parts, by weight, of finely powdered 
pale French rosin, 24J parts, by weight, 
of Manila copal, as well as 85 parts, by 
weight, of denaturized spirit (95 p er 
cent), causing the cask or the stirrer to 
' rotate until all the guni has completely 
dissolved, which, according to the tem- 
perature of the room in which the stirrer 
is and the hardness of the gums, re- 
quires 24 to 48 hours. When the gums 
are entirely dissolved add to the mix- 
ture a solution of 21 \ parts, by weight, 
of Venice oil turpentine in 0.025 parts, 
by weight, of denaturized spirit of 95 per 
cent, allowing the stirrer to run another? 
to 3 hours. For the purpose of removing 
any impurities present or any undis- 
solved rosin from the varnish, il is poured 
through a hair sieve or through a three- 
fold layer of fine muslin (organdie) into 
suitable tin vessels or zinc-lmed barrels 
for further clarification. After 10 to l* 
days the varnish is ready for use. ny 
grinding this varnish with the corre- 
sponding dry pigments .the daawd 
shades of color may be obtained; brt* 
is well to remark that chemically pur _ 
zinc white cannot be used With aav 
tage because it thickens and lose, 
covering power. The B*^?^ 
carried out twice on an ordinary i 
mill- Following are some recipes- 

I. — Enamel White, - If j 
parts, by weight; white lead, P by 
part, by weight; varnish, ~u P 
weight. , j c k 2 

II. — Enamel Black.— -Ivory w* ( 
parts, by weight; Paris blue, v. 

by weight; varnish, S3 parts, .j 

III. -Pale Gray-Graphde, *T bT 
by weight; ultramarine, tKU , ^-eig^' 
weight; lithopone, 40 parts, y J 
varnish, 100 parts, by wea«J pj0 fa 

IV. — Dark Grav.— Graphite, 

by weight; ivory black, 2 parts- ^ rPl sfl. 
lithopone, 40 parts, by weigW- 
110 parts, by weight 



VARNISHES 



7&3 



a Yellow, Pale.— Chrome 
Chrome ^% ( ht . Uthopone, 8 

Bv, 3 E5*S t TWfili. 40 parts, by 

** b fS r imparts, by weight. 

*?!! rhrome Yellow, Dark -Chrome 



jrell' 
pa - f Lt 

irt, by. 



yellow t by weight; litnopoue, x 

orangf- * *Ebt varnish, 35 parte, by 
nart by weigni., weight. 
p -Jm- benzine. 1 pa", uj « a 
ft , elg bt, p l Carmine, \ part, 

yU ^Pink, ^ a ~' , = narts by weight; 
•~hf lithopone, 13 pari*, >jj « 6 , 
by^ h 4n narts, by weight; benzine, H 
**2fbv weight. 

P a I S ; TT Lpink, Dark.-Carmine, * part, 
VI I'M Turkey red, 1 part, by weight; 

8^S^^**** ! varmsh ' 

1 n7bv weight: lithopone, 1 part, by 

l^^wefgS-bL^ipar*. 
by weight. 

v _ F lesh Tint.— Chrome yellow, pale, 
Imparts, by weight; graphite, i part, by 
wS lithopone, 15 parts, by weight; 
Turkey red, pale, 2 parts, by weight; 
varnish, 42 parts, by weight; benzine, £ 
part, by weight. 

XI.— Carmine Red.— Lead sulphate, 
5 parts, by weight; Turkey red, pale, b 
parts, by weight; carmine, 1* parts, by 
weight; orange minium, 3 parts, by 
weight; vermilion, 2 parts, by weight; 
varnish, 50 parts, by weight; benzine, 1J 
parts, by weight. 

XIL— Sky Blue.^-Ultramarine, 5 parts, 
W weight; lithopone, 5 parts, by weight; 
ultramarine green, 0.05 parts, by weight; 
varnish, 30 parts, by weight; benzine, 1 
part, by weight. 

XIII. — Ultramarine. — Ultra blue, 5 
parts, by weight; varnish, IS parts, by 
weight; benzine, \ part, by weight. 

XIV. — Violet. — Ultramarine, with red 
huge, 10 parts, by weight; carmine, O.i? 
Parts, by weight; varnish, 25 parts, by 
weight. 

XV. — Azure. — Paris blue, 10 parts, by 
height; lithopone, 100 parts, by weight; 
varuish, 300 parts, by weight. 

XVI. — Leaf Green. — Chrome green, 
Pale, 5 parts, by weight; varnish, 25 parts, 

y weight; benzine, \ part, by weight. 
Tla J VTI — Silk Green.— Silk green, 10 
E*\ y wei ght; chrome yellow, pale, £ 
WZ - \ wei ght; lead sulphate, 5 parts, 
y weight; varnish, 30 parts, by weight ; 

yStV Part ' b ? we ^ ht ' 
PartJl 11 -Brown. — English red, 10 
by weight; ocher, light, 3 parts, by 



weight; varnish, 30 parts, by weight; 
benzine, £ part, by weight 

XIX . — Ocher. — F 
by weight; chrom 
by weight; varnis 
benzine, £ part, by weight. 

XX. — Chocolate. — Umber, 10 parts, by 
weight; Florentine lake, I part, by weight; 
varnish, 25 parts, by weight; benzine, i 
part, by weight. 

XXI. 




-Terra Cotta.- — Chrome yellow, 
paie, iu parts, by weight; Turkey red, 
dark, 3 parts, by weight; varnish, 35 
parts, by weight. 

XXII. — Olive, Greenish. — French 
ocher, 5 parts, by weight; Paris blue, \ 
part, by weight; graphite, \ part, by 
weight; varnish, 25 parts, by weight; 
lithopone, 5 parts, by weight. 

XXIII. — Olive, Brownish.— Chrome 
orange, 5 parts, by weight; Paris blue, 2 

Earts, by weight ; lead sulphate, 10 parts, 
y weight; English red, 1 part, by weight; 
varnish, 40 parts, by weight; benzine, 11 
parts, by weight. 

XXI V. — Olive , Reddish.— Turkey red, 
dark, 75 parts, by weight; sap green, 75 
parts, by weight; ocher, pale, 5 parts by 
weight; varnish, 300 parts, by weight; 
benzine, 1* parts, by weight. 
ENGRAVERS' VARNISHES. 

In copper-plate engraving th e plat 
must be covered with a dark-coTore 
bating which, though entirely unaffect 
by the eSing' fiuidfmust be soft enoug 

the principal ^f^i var ?eties ar 
which only the bertnalura^ 
suitable for this pwPJ» * m tallow . 

xnon if F edient ^ S ^ e a e re usually made : 
Etching grounds area * rati b 

me lting and stirring tne ^ ^ 
together and allowing w disgolve 
in thin sheets, plate is coate 

in oil of terpentine. i^ P ish thro u 
uniform y tool readily pen. 

which the engiaw s to t 

trates, W X. ta wn ^ 
After the lines tmis m aCl 

itched byj^SfrfV^ Wl 
the varnish is w 

turpentine. form ulas for etcm. 

engravers: 



724 



VARNISHES 



I 


II 


III 


.50 


30 


110 


.20 


20 


25 






20 


25 


is 


25 



IV 

40 parts 
40 parts 
20 parts 
. . parts 
. . parts 
2 parts 
10 parts 



12 parts 



Yellow wax. . . 
Syrian asphalt 

Rosin 

Amber 

Mastic 

Tallow : • • 

Bergundy pitch 

FLOOR VARITCSHES. 

I Manila copal, spirit 

soluble 

EU d b e ?ed She ! IaC :. P0W : 62 parts 

Venice, turpentine 12 P^rtS 

Spirit, 96 percent.. .. 250 parts 

The materials are dissolved cold in a 
covered vat with constant stirring, or 
better still, in a stirring machine, and 
filtered. For the pale shades take light 
ocher- for dark ones, Amberg earth 
which are well ground with the varnish 
in a paint mill. 

II.— Shellac, A C leaf, l.S parts; san- 
darac, S parts; Manila copal, 2 parts; 
rosin, 5 parts; castor or lmoleic acid or 
wood oil acid, 1.50 parts; spirit (96 per 
cent), 65 parts. 

French Varnish. — So-called French 
varnish is made by dissolving 1 part of 
bleached or orange shellac in 5 parts of 
alcohol, the solution being allowed to 
stand and the clear portion then being de- 
canted. The varnish may be colored by 
materials which are soluble in alcohol. 

For red, use 1 part of eosin to 49 parts 
of the bleached shellac solution. For 
blue, use 1 part of aniline blue to 24 
parts of the bleached, shellac solution, as 
the orange shellac solution would impart 
a greenish cast. For green, use 1 part of 
aniline green (brilliant green) to 49 parts 
of the orange shellac solution. For yel- 
low, use cither 2 parts of extract of tur- 
meric or 1 part of gamboge to 24 parts of 
the solution, or 1 part of aniline yellow 
to 49 parts of the solution. For golden 
yellow, use 2 parts of gamboge and 1 
part of dragon's blood to 47 parts of the 
orange shellac solution. The gamboge 
and dragon's blood should be dissolved 
nrst m a little alcohol. 

Golden Varnishes. — 

— ?? wdered benzoin. . 1 part 
Alcohol enough to make 10 parts, 
lure saffron, roughly broken up, 
about 6 threads to the ounce. 
Macerate 3 days and filter. Vary the 
JjanUtv of saffron according to the 

boXt dSd.° Varni3h if a heavier 



II.— Benzoin, jumper gum, gum 
tic, equal parts. ttS " 

Dissolve the gums m 9 times tW 
weight of alcohol (varied more or if* 
according to the consistency wanted? 
and color to the desired shade JjAl 
threads of pure saffron. This varnish i, 
very brilliant and dries at once. 

India -Rubber Varnishes.^L— Di SSo u 
10 pounds of India rubber in a mix 
ture of 10 pounds of turpentine and 20 
pounds of petroleum by treating S am e 
on a water bath. When the solution i 3 
completed add 45 pounds of drying oil 
and 5 pounds of lampblack and mis 
thoroughly. 

II. — Dissolve 7 pounds of India rub- 
ber in 25 pounds of oil of turpentine. By 
continued heating dissolve 14 pounds of 
rosin in the mixture. Color while hot 
with 3 pounds of lampblack. 

Inlay Varnish. — 

Ozokerite 17 parts 

Carnauba wax 3 parts 

Turpentine oil 15 parts 

Melt the ozokerite and Carnauba wax, 
then stir in the turpentine oil. This 
varnish is applied like a polish and im- 
parts to the wood a dark natural color 
and a dull luster. 

Japanning Tin. — The first thing to be 
done when a vessel is to be japanned, is 
to free it from ail grease and oil, by rub- 
bing it with turpentine. Should the oil, 
however, be linseed, it may be allowed to 
remain on the vessel, which must in mat 
case be put in an oven and heated tin 
the oil becomes quite hard. . 

After these preliminaries, a paint oi 
the shade desired, ground m linseed on, 
is applied. For brown, umber may £>e 

US When the paint has been satisfactor| 
applied it should be hardened by B« ^ 
ing, and then smoothed down bj ruu ' | 
with ground pumice stone applwa . j 
by means of a piece of felt raourf 
with water. To be done *f>£ > rfM 
quires care and patience, ana, 
be added, some experience. var . 

The vessel is next coated witu 
rush, made by the following tor ™" ceg 

Turpentine spirit § JJ^ccS 

Oil of lavender ^ it&eb^ 

Camphor , 0 unces 

Bruised copal va T^' iS ^ 

other good 



some 



Perhaps some olxjc* » - slI jts. 
would give equally satisfactory * ^ oVef j 

After this the vessel is put ^ 
and heated to as high a tei 
will bear without causing 



Its- 



lly satisici^y 0 v^ 
vessel is Prt™ x %e** 

it nmisine toe 



VARNISHES 



725 



When the varnish has 
blister of T T[ he vesS el is taken out and 
beco«» e b f t d ] s put on, which is submitted 
another coat »P Thig rocess may be 
fo^f ti fi t f ie judfrment of the opera- 
repeated ti 1 ie . ^ lollger advisable. 
^ teUs Orators the coloring mat- 
Some °P e ^ r the varnish; when this is 



* rdire Should be taken that the pi£ 
d° ne ' Ca firs reduced to an impalpable 
13 then thoroughly mixed with 
powder, aim 
the Uquid- 

LAB EL VANISHES. 

I__Sandarac 

Mastic • ■ 

Venice turpentine 150 

Alcohol. lb 

Macerate with repeated stirring until 

n mucilaee then dried, and then 
dll ta S tins varnish. If the labels 
wriHen with water-soluble 



ounces av. 
ounce av. 
grains 
fluidounces 



coa, 

£or b ?oL;\tey are first coated with 8 
coats of collodion, and then varnished. 

II —The varnished labels of stock ves- 
sels often suffer damage from the spilling 
of the contents and the dripping alter 
much pouring. . 

Formalin gelatin is capable of with- 
standing the baneful influence of ether, 
benzine, water, spirit of wine, oil, and 
most substances. The following method 
of applying the preservative is recom- 
mended: Having thoroughly cleaned 
the surface of the vessel, paste the label 
on and allow it to dry well. Give it a 
coat of thin collodion to protect the 
letters from being dissolved out or caused 
to run, then after a few minutes paint 
over it a coat of gelatin warmed to 
fluidity— 5 to 25 — being careful to cover 
m all the edges. Just before it solidifies 
go over it with a tuft of cotton dipped 
mto a 40 per cent formalin solution. It 
soon dries and becomes as glossy as 
varnish, and may be coated again and 
again without danger of impairing the 
clear white of the label or decreasing its 
transparency. 

father Varnishes. — I. — An excellent 
varnish for leather can be made from the 
louowing recipe: Heat 400 pounds of 
foiled oil to 212° F., and add little by 
Pounds of bichromate of potash, 
^ e Ping the same temperature. The 
Xw° n 0f the bichromate should take 
a »j Vi minu tes- Raise to 310° F. f 
tet^ gradually during 1 hour at that 
&/ at V/e, 40 pounds Prussian blue. 
tG4ftoo°I 3 „ nou rs more, gradually raising 
^ to 572° p., w i t h constant stirring. 



In the meantime, heat together at 392° 
F., for £ an hour, 25 pounds linseed oil. 
35 pounds copal, 75 pounds turpentine, 
and 7 pounds ceresmc. Mix the two 
varnishes, and dilute, if necessary, when 
cold with turpentine. The varnish should 
require to be warmed for easy application 
with the brush. 

II- — Caoutchouc, 1 part; petroleum, 
1 part; carbon bisulphide, 1 part; 
shellac, 4 parts; bone black, 2 parts; 
alcohol, 20 parts. First the caoutchouc 
is brought together with carbon bisul- 
phide in a well-closed bottle and stood 
aside for a few days. As soon as the 
caoutchouc is soaked add the petroleum 
and the alcohol, then the finely powdered 
shellac, and heat to about 125° F. When 
the liquid appears pretty clear, which 
indicates the solution of all substances, 
the bone black is added by shaking 
thoroughly and the varnish is at once 
filled in bottles which are well closed. 
This pouch composition excels in drying 
quickly and produces upon the leather a 
smooth, deep black coating, which pos- 
sesses a certain elasticity. 



METAL VARNISHES. 

The purpose of these varnishes is to 
protect the metals from oxidation and to 
render them glossy. 

Aluminum Varnish.— The following is 
a process giving a special varnish tor 
^lu^inum/but it may 
for other metals, giving a <£f *f " n ^ 
tPraVile and indestructible by water or 
So^^eric influence. Dissolve : prefer 
ably in an enameled vessel ^10 parts 
weight, of gum Ja< m SO ^%J m 
' The aluminum 

;a 

tash, 
> ar 

heated, during 



ammonia. . 

about 1 hour and co^ fa {g 

to be covered with ttiisv 
fully cleaned in P^^J" s placeS 
ap plied the varnish, he art ^ ^ 

sy^^^-» tebto temperatu 

(about 1062° F.). ^mid-I- 
Brass Varnishes ta*J ^ °^ ss l oh . 
An excellent gold varnish t jnatrUjnenl? . 

K. r< .-.m laf. in 



jects. 



surgical or G uai lac, in 

etc., is P«P ar< £ c ? f 30 par*; dragon . 
grains, pulverize. f'J^V w0od , 1 par , 
Blood, 1 part; red sana f alco hol, 



red sanders wood, 1 PF* ; 
pai 

il!TC r oU , ffi X« simply serves 
Sr P Th A powdered 



Hire 1 - , „ +h*» dissolving- 

fM ?rS«e! & particle, of guro 



posin 



n TKeduee to.powder l*Jj£. % 




VARNISHES 



ftnd 1,700 pjr* - Jace 



by 



weight, of spirit; 
24 hours, and 




n narts by weight, of gamboge; 70 
gum; 50 parts, oy * dlac . Mix these 
parts, by weight, « seediac. , £ 

I> the dose of the operation. l^i* 1S a 
fine varnish for brass scientific mstru- 
ments. 

Bronze Varnishes. — I. The follow- 
ing process yields a top varnish for 
bronze goods and other metallic ware m 
the mosf varying shades, the varnish ex- 
celling, besides, in high gloss and dur- 
Ibility. Fill in a bottle, pale shellac, 
best quality, 40 parts, by weight; pow- 
dered Florentine lake, 12 parts, by 
weight; gamboge, 30 parts, by weight; 
dragon's blood, also powdered, 6 parts, 
by weight; and add 400 parts, by weight, 
of spirit of wine. This mixture is al- 
lowed to dissolve, the best way being to 
heat the bottle on the water bath until the 
boiling point of water is almost reached, 
shaking from time to time until all is 
dissolved. Upon cooling, decant the 
liquid, which constitutes a varnish of 
dark-red color, from any sediment that 
may be present. In a second bottle dis- 
solve in the same manner 24 parts, by 
weight, of gamboge in 400 parts, by 
weight, of spirit of wine, from which will 
result a varnish of golden-yellow tint. 
According to the hue desired, mix the 
red varnish with the yellow variety, pro- 
ducing in this way any shade from the 
deepest red to the color of gold. If re- 
quired, dilute with spirit of wine. The 
application of the varnish should be con- 
ducted as usual, that is, the article should 
be slightly warm, it being necessary to 
adhere strictly to a certain temperature, 
which can be easily determined by trials 
and maintained by experience. In order 
to give this varnish a pale-yellow to 
greenish-yellow tone, mix 10 drops of 
picric acid with about 3 parts, by weight, 
of spirit of wine, and add to a small 
quantity of the varnish some of this mix- 
ture until the desired shade has been 
reached. _ Picric acid ia poisonous, and 
tbe keeping of varnish mixed with this 
acid in a closed bottle is not advisable, 
because there is danger of an explosion. 
Iherefore, it is best to 



prepare only so 

• r- — wi. um; viluc ar : 

tor the immediate purpose. 



DQueh. varnish at one time as" is necessary 



Brown Varnish. — An excellent 
quickly drying brown varnish f 0r m **f! 
is made by dissolving 20 ounces 0 f 
kino and 5 ounces of gum benjamin & S 
ounces of the best cold alcohol-, 20 oun 
of common shellac and 2 ounces ot thn! 
turpentine in 36 ounces of alcohol »1 
give a very good varnish. If t h e brow! 
is to have a reddish tint, dissolve sn 
ounces of ruby shellac, 5 ounces bals ai ! 
of copaiba, and 2 to 5 ounces of anilro- 
brown, with or without 4 to 1 ounce of 
aniline violet, in 150 ounces of alcohol. 

Copper Varnishes. - 
polished objects: 

I. — One hundred and ten parts of 
sandarac and 30 parts of rosin, dissolved 
in sufficient quantity of alcohol; 5 parts 
of glycerine are to be added. 

II. — Sandarac 10 parts 

Rosin 3 parts 

Glycerine \ part 

Alcohol, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the two rosins in sufficient 
alcohol and add the glycerine. 

Decorative Metal Varnishes. — 



-These two are f or 



I 

Per 
Cent 

Seed lac 11.5 

Amber 7.6 

Gamboge.. . . 7.6 

Dragon's 
blood 0 

Saffron 0 

Sandarac. . . . 

Mastic 

Elemi 

Venice tur- 
pentine. . . . 

Camphor. . . . 

Aloe 

Alcohol 72 



II 

Per 
Cent 



III 

Per 
Cent 



IS 
16 



11, 
6. 
3. 



15.9 
14.0 



IV 
Per 

Cent 

18*5 



16.6 
3.4 



1.0 3.4 



1.5 



96 77.5 



7.0 

60.1 



63. 



As will be seen, only natural color*, 
used. The so-called "gold l«q« ' 5 
composed « follows: Sandarac, 



as 



follows: ^—"-"5' parts; 

, J parts; shellac, W V» M 

Venice turpentine, 2.5 P arts ' j^l, 73 



parts ; mastic, 3 p 



part; 
is 



filtered. 



Ap- 



parts; gamboge, 3 
parts. The solution is »"£Yj, sfco** 
plied in a thin coating this vara ^ ^ 
a handsome golden shade. v m pOSl' 
varnishes have the following e 
tion 



V 

Per 
Cent 

17.5 
13. 1 



Shellac 

Yellow acaroid gum 

Manila 'i 

Alcohol 69.4 



VI 

Fer 

Cent 

%5-0 
8.0 
61.0 



per 
Cert 

£>'<> 




VARNISHES 



, ..h — I. — A good gold var- 

Disb fo J r ^° t brilliancy is prepared as 
^ ceS dissolve 3 pounds of shellac i. 
follows: ^'^"i-ohol, S pounds of mas 
IX „,. ft rts of alcon u , w d 



very firmly, so that the article 
pressed without damage. 



can 



in 

follows: ^TVipohoI, 5 pounds oi mas- 
30 ^f S n ;its of alcohol, 8 pounds of 
tic » 5 quart ^ ( pQund 

s» ndaT i f to in 5 quarts of alcohol, 1 pound 
blood in 1 quart of alcohol 
Oi drag .°" f saunders in 5 quarts of alco- 
3 pounds oi turpentine m 3 quarts 

$ pounds ot tu in ^ave 

0 f alcohol, flj aepara tely in the given 
beC \w " Ibsolufe alcohol and filtered, 
ST Sutiifare mixed at a moderate 

te n -A varnish which will give a 
i Cluster, and any gold color from 
splendid J" s ^[ d llow> is prepared by 

fbCiO u em pale shellac 15 pounds 
FWntine lake (precipitated from cochi- 
ll I o - redwood decoction by alum onto 
sSch kaolm, or gypsum), 25 ounces of 
Slwood, and 8 ounces of dragon s 
Wood These in fine powder arc dis- 
ced on the water bath, m 500 ounces 
ectificd spirit. The spirit must bod 
and remain, with occasional shaking, for 
ft to 8 hours on the bath.. Then cool and 
decant. In the meantime heat in an- 
other flask on the bath SO ounces of 
gamboge in 500 ounces of the same spirit. 
The two liquids are mixed until the right 
color needed for the particular purpose 
in hand is obtained. Dilute with spirit 
if too thick. The addition of a little 
picric acid gives a greenish-yellow bronze 
but makes the varnish very liable to ex- 
plode. .These varnishes are applied to 
gently warmed surfaces with a soft 
bristle brush. 



Gold Varnish for Tin.— This is obtained 
in the following manner: Spread out 5 
parts, by weight, of finely powdered 
crystallized copper acetate in a warm 
spot, allowing it to lie for some time; then 
grind the powder, which will have, ac- 
quired a light-brown shade, with oil of 
turpentine and add, with stirring, 15 
Parts, by weight, of fat copal varnish 
heated to 140° F. When the copper 
acetate has dissolved (in about i hour), 
me mass is filled in a bottle and allowed 
to stand warm, for several days, shaking 
frequently. The gold varnish is then 
ready for use. Coat the articles uni- 
Sf I whh »*• and beat in a drying 
d amber, whereupon, according to the 
e gree of temperature, varying colora- 
+ ( ? nS n re °btained, changing from green 
° W ' then golden yellow, and finally 
ni W to brown. When good copal var- 
n * employed, the varnish will adhere 



MODERN VARNISH MAKING. 

Like most commodities there is a great 
difference in the composition of present 
day varnishes as compared with those of 
several years back. While linseed oil ia 
still used in making various types of 
varnishes it has been superseded mostly 
by the now well known China Wood Oil 
or often known as Tung Oil. It could 
be stated without exaggeration that at 
least 80% of the varnish made consists 
mostly of China Wood Od as the type of 
oil used. 

Likewise a great change has taken 
place in the solid materials used for dur- 
ing the past the gums and resins used 
chiefly were those natural gums such as 
Copals, Manillas, Damars, Elemis, etc., 
while the cheaper varnishes today use as 
the base Rosin Ester, a resin produced 
by nature but chemically treated so that 
it is called an artificial resin. Most cheap 
varnishes and a few medium grade are 
made with the use of this gum as the 
solid material and in a few instances 
other natural gums are incorporated 
with this gum to produce varnishes giv- 
ing various Tesults. 

The greatest improvement perhaps 
found in the varnishes that _ are mac 
using a synthetic resin of the Amberol 
type as the solid content. Amb"d» 
today too well known as a leading syn- 
tne&c resin to make , It ^f^i 
describe it. We might ^tettet 1 
resin will enable a varnish maker to pre 
duce T varnish with all around quaWie 

such as hardness - ^ErfC neve, 
bility, etc., something t JM* J* 

natural gimas ^n a ^ opex i 
found that certai berol wlU pre 

made with the x uS ^ OI , ^ d t free in le£ 
duce a film that ^ J ^ft? lesS thi 
than two hours ; and hard^ 

Y arnish formula* for ^J ssihle ti 



Yar nish formulas ^ , c 
purpose it would be ^ m of th r 

cupy sp* ce wl 2 1° 5ve the formula 
Sot it will suffice to give - red a „d 

for those most c^^s *n be* 
out of t ^ eS ^I a "Tproduced. It might 
perimented with ^ pr 
e well to also state ™» L ^rmg 



728 



VABNISHES 



Sin Soles laid down are followed. The 
SSSSSten of the cooking of the resins, 
heating of oils, etc., still remains some- 
thing of an art and therefore experience 
and continual experimentation is of un- 
oftimated value. - 

There is always danger of a fire since 
the fumes arc highly inflammable and it 
is always customary for the varnish maker 
to have several heavy burlap sacks which 
are wet, handy so he can put them over 
the flame and smother a fire Carbon 
Tetachloride in hermetically sealed bulbs 
is now obtainable from dealers and these 
can be thrown at the fire also. Do not 
try to put out a varnish fire with a soda 
and acid extinguisher or with water for 
they will both spread the flames. 

NOTES ON VARNISH MAKING. 

Batches of varnish are usually pre- 
pared taking one hundred pounds of 
g iim or resin as the solid material and 
from twenty to fifty gallons of oil as the 
cooking medium. In other words it is 
hardly profitable or worth while to go 
to the expense and bother of cooking 
Tarnish in less quantities than this. 

Copper kettles are usually used and 
will last for a long time if properly used. 

It is the custom among the large 
vamish makers to make up three or four 
Standard varnishes out of the natural 
gums such as Manilla, Kauri, Damars, 
etc., and by intermixing these various 
types can produce almost an endless 
variety of finishing varnishes. For in- 
stance it is known that the varnishes 
made from the use of Kauri Gum will 
produce tough films and out of these 
are made our Spar Varnishes. Manilla 
gums produce softer and more brittle 
varnishes and by a system of mixing 
certain proportions together a varnish of 
biTbtained Strength ° r durab 'l*ty can 

_ A V *™ ish firm advertising a dozen or 
more d fferent gradeg rf 

them^iff 6 tW S ° r ^ ree S rades bllt labe * 
h> ^^ eTently and as a ruIc th e pub- 
T)rofessi o^l painters and 
ttecorators Cannot tell the difference. 
" f ' W ^ er > ra °st of the reliable con- 

type of material they desire. 
»is£ m^f P 0t ' howev er, mix the var- 
those S± f / 0m the "atural gums with 
7l m S fr T f7 nthe ^ resins such 
AmbEro1 an d others for he will And 



that they will not mix together pror,* « 
and if he tries it he will get into trot/wr 

Varnish cooking is an art. The f 
mulas given in this book will not ruakp *\ 
entirely possible for one to properlv <~L \ 
a batch of varnish for the experieSS 
and expert varnish maker knows exact! 
how hot to have his fire, how ] c - - 



cook the varnish, how rapidly he ° 
reach the top heats, etc., and it is the 
important things that will make or hSr 
the varnish. To the beginner we ttousS 
he make up very small batches at first 
and carefully time his cooking, taking 
temperatures with a thermometer very 
often and keep close watch of everything 
he does so that he can repeat the job 
if the varnish proves to be a good one 
This must be emphasized so that the hi 
experienced one will not be disappointed 
at his results. 

There are of course many formulas for 
making many kinds of varnishes. Often- 
times, however, the same formula is used 
in producing a varnish that is sold under 
a variety of names and for a variety of 
purposes. Some varnish manufacturers 
who may not be over scrupulous ■will 
make a varnish using 150 pounds of 
Rosin Ester Gum to 400 pounds of China 
Wood Oil, cook it, add the thinners and 
driers and label it as Floor Varnish, In- 
terior Varnish, Spar Varnish and what 
not. And of course the buying public 
seldom knows the difference. It is need- 
less to Say that there is a great difference. 

Floor Varnishes Using Synthetic 
Resin (Amberol, Bakelite or Durez).— 

Amberol F-7 . .45 lbs. 

China Wood Oil 10 gallons 

Heavy Bodied Linseed 

Oil* S aUc,llS 

Lead Resinate 5 lbs. 

Liquid Cobalt Resinate 1 P ]Ilt 
Liquid Manganese Res- 



inate 



lions 



Thinners . 22 

The Amberol and China Wood Oil are 
heated together in a varnish kettle ^ 
degrees F. The heat is held ™f e lte d 
few minutes. A drop of tnis g(ld 
material should be put on » £ ia! L fc) re 
when it strings to about 7 in , clieS tiirea d) 
breaking (must string to a line ^ 
add the Lead Resinate and ^f^L^ F- 
Then cool the mixture to 450 de e 
and reduce with the Thinners, ^ 
should consist of Mineral SP^rl'jj iff 
add the driers. This varnish snp one 
dust free in about one hour ■ jfl fiv e 
half, while it ought to be Hot" 
hours, if properly prepared. 



VARNISHES 



7S8A 



Interior 



Varnish. 



, tj c t ... .45 lbs. 

A * he Wood Oil': U gaUons 

Cbina Rodied Linseed 
Heavy Bomeu 1 

Liquid Cobalt Drier . . 
liquid Manganese 

Drier lg 

Thinners 

in much the same way as 
PrC C 6 n h "3y add heat Wood OU 
Fl0 ° r -I a S of the 7 amount of Amberol 
%TL l formula, up to temperature 
KfiS 0 F Hold for a string as de- 
or 0 , L'™, Then add the Linseed 

5C ? bed m ainder of Amberol and Lead 
m remainder or R ^ ^ 

? eS1I S nute" untH all of the remaining 
Kb taken up. Then drop tem- 

iSSS few degrees and add Thinners 
K varnish has about the same drying 
qualities as the Floor Varnish. 

Old Fashioned Hard Gum Kauri 
Varnish. — 

100 pounds Kauri Gum 
15 gallons Linseed Oil 
5 gallons Turpentine 
IS gallons substitute turpentine 
1 quart liquid drier 

Melt resin thoroughly in linseed oil. 
Temperature will run around 500 de- 
grees F. although a certain temperature 
is not the desirable point. With the 
stirring rod one can feel when the resin 
is all melted. This usually requires from 
% of an hour to IV2 hours depending 
upon the kind of oil, quality and amount 
of both oil and gums. After the resin 
has been cooked and is melted thor- 
oughljr in the oil it is cooled down to 
admit the reduction with turpentine and 
thinner, also to add the drier. 

Spar Varnish —No doubt but the most 
common and best spar varnishes are to- 
a &y made from the synthetic resins such 
as A-mberol which is used in other for- 
mulas. The following formula will give 
n idea to work from, the combination 
em g a tried and proven spar varnish: 

AmKrol F-7 50 pounds 

V™ Wooa Oil 18 gallons 

H ^vy Bodied Linseed 

, uu 4 gallons 

*f ad Resinate 6 pounds 

lur pentine 5 gallons 

rnolene 
LjHuid Cobalt Dner 
liquid 



gallon 

lbs. 

pint 

pint 
gallons 



LW? e Ji e , : 85 gallons 

3 pints 
2 



x ^ y 0il and Amberol is heated 
to 5G5 degrees F. and it is held there f 01 
string on glass to nine or ten inches. 
The Lead Resinate and Linseed Oil are 
then added. The mixture is then cooled 
to about 450 degrees F. when the thin- 
ners and driers are added. 

Experimentation with different kinds 
of resins and gums mixed with different 
proportions of linseed and china wood 
oil must be made to determine the re- 
sults desired as only practice will enable 
one to produce the material required. 
Let it be remembered that Varnish 
Cooking is an art, not simply a mix- 
ing and heating process. It is impor- 
tant to know that varnishes made with 
natural gums as the solid content and 
cooked with different proportions of oils 
and thinners can be mixed together after 
they are made, to obtain different kinds 
of finished varnishes. As an example? 
Oftentimes a copal varnish will be mixed 
together with a Kauri Varnish to pro- 
duce a varnish having certain working 
qualities which a painter or manufac- 
turer desires. For this reason many 
manufacturers make only three or four 
varnishes in the kettles and by inter- 
mixing these obtain various kinds of 
products, suitable for a variety of pur- 
poses. 

Architectural Oil and Varnish Stains 
—It is very simple to make up a varnish 
stain or an oil stain. In the cue of a 
nish stain a given P^Po^on £ 
color ground in oil 

to 



var 
strong 
added 



J! m |allon" of^varnish and ad^ 
e. , j n making 



ditional dryer is also added, 
ou stains ierely add a certain m^tof 
color ground in oil to a f^g^ 8 ^ 
oil, alio a given amount of dryer 



V. M. & P- Naptha. 



ranese Drier 



Varnish Stains.-Walnut 

c 

drying varnish 



Varnish 



l rL 19 nimces of Burnt Umber, 
Stain. Add 12 ounces 01 ^ *> 

ground in oil to , «d 1 j g £ 

' ? ! ; " or V. M. & P- Na P" 
Add 15 ounces of 

ochre in oil to 

ingvarnish^ gtaia 



a little turpentine 
tha. 

Oak Va«teh Stein^-rf ^ dry „ 



Add 5 
Red "in Oil, also 7 
in Oil, to gallon 



Mahogany Varnish 

varnish. . Add jg ounces 

Green Varnish Stain A dryinf? 

Chrome Green to one gau 

varnish. . Ad a 6 ounces 

Cherry Varmsh^Stain. Burnt 

French uenre 



VARNISHES-VETERINARY FORMULAS 



Sienna to one gaUon quick drying var- 
"'SrSf:" .n so— the 



V M. & P- Naptha. 

Kay" purchasing Pure Shellac on 
the open market and abeled thus, is a 
most certain to get the genuine article. 

Pure Shellac can be obtained in either 
White or Orange and ranges in * variety 
of cuts from 3 pounds to a gallon of al- 
cohol to 5 pounds in a gallon. Factories 
usually purchase it four pounds to a gal- 
lon and perhaps most cutters use this 
amount as standard. For many pur- 
poses in architectural work or for finish- 
ing hard wood floors, Pure Shellac has 
never been equalled. 

There are many products on the mar- 
ket sold as "Shellac Substitutes" and 
gome have quite a wide sale for cheap 
work, where the cost of using Pure Shel- 
lac is not allowed but no substitute has 
yet ever measured up to the quality and 
working conditions of the genuine article. 
Loud claims are made for various prod- 
ucts some being copals in solution, Ester 
Gums and various synthetic resins and 
are often offered at around one half the 
price of the Pure Shellac. For an under- 
coat under a varnish surface it knows 
no equal and is still widely used in this 
respect. 

Varnish for Playing Cards, — 

-56 pounds gum elemi 
4 gallons methylated spirit 

Varnish (Bright) for Ship's Use.— 

Pale rosin . , 168 pounds 

"Rosin oil 252 pounds 

Rosin spirit 42 pounds 

Sweat rosin at 300° F. for four hours; 
add oil and continue boiling for one 
hour. Take from the fire and cool down 
to 200° F. and carefully add the spirit, 
well_ stirring in. Rectified or crude rosin 
spirit, according to price. 



VASELINE STAINS, TO REMOVE 
FROM CLOTHING: UVE 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

VASOLIMENTUM. 

This unguent is of two kinds, liquid 
t d semi-solid. T he former is prep are j 



an 



by mixing 500 parts of olcin, 250 parts 0 f 
alcoholic ammonia, and 1,000 parts o£ li q . 
u id paraffine, the whole being warmed 
until completely dissolved, and anv 1 0S3 



in weight made up by addition of spirit. 
The semi-solid preparation is made of 
the same ingredients, except the paraffine 
salve is substituted for the liquid. The 
product is used as a basis for ointments, 
in place of vasogene, and can be i n . 
corporated with a number of medica- 
ments, such as 10 per cent of naphthol, 
SO per cent of guaiacol, 25 per cent of 
jumper tar, 5 per cent of thiol, 6 per 
cent of iodine, 5 per cent of creosote, 10 
per cent of ichthyol, 5 per cent of creolin, 
2 per cent of menthol, etc. 

VAT ENAMELS AND VARNISHES: 
See Varnishes. 

VEGETABLES, TESTS FOR CANNED: 
See Foods. 

VEGETABLE PARCHMENT: 

See Parchment. 

VICHY: 

See Waters. 

VICHY SALT: 

See Salts (Effervescent). 

Veterinary Formulas 

FOR BIRDS : 

Asthma in Canaries.— 

Tincture capsicum. . 
Spirits chloroform. . 
Iron citrate, soluble 



5 drachms 
90 minim 5 

"'' '•' ' ' ' *ti ounces 

Fennel water J - j n 

Give a few drops on lump oi sug 
the cage once daily. 

Colas. — 

Tincture ferri per- 
cbloride. - , 

Acid hydrochloric, dm 

Glycerine 

Aqua camphor, q. s • ■ ^ 
Use 3 to 0 drops in drinking 

Ointment for Healing.— 
Peru balsam 
Cola cream . 

Apply. 



i tlra^ 111 
1 oiinc 6 



60 
1 



(jrai IlS 




VETERINARY FORMULAS 



729 



ronstipation in Birds.— 

p nna • • - e drachms 

ISnelwate^q.s-... 4 ounces 
Give a few drops on sugar in cage 
on ce daily- 

D TTucTure iron chloride 2 drachms 

jUhctui drachms 

paregoric..-.. ounces 

Caraway water *>4 ounces 

Give few drops on lump of sugar once 
daily. 

Mocking-Bin 1 Food.— 

Crackers 8 ounces 

X 9 ounces 

~. .. g ounces 

Bice ' 

Hemp seed 1 ounce 

Capsicum 10 S rams 

Mix and reduce to a coarse powder. 

Foods for Red Birds. — 

Sunflower seed 8 ounces 

Hemp seed 16 ounces 

Canary seed 10 ounces 

Cracked wheat 8 ounces 

TJnshelled rice 6 ounces 

Mix and grind to a coarse powder. 

Canary-Bird Food. — 

Yolk of egg (dry) % ounces 

Poppy heads (pow- 
dered) 1 ounce 

Cuttlefish bone (pow- 
dered) 1 ounce 

Sugar 2 ounces 

Powdered crackers. . . 8 ounces 



Bird Tonic. — 

Powdered capsicum. . 20 grains 

Powdered gentian.. . . 1 drachm 

Ferri peroxide J ounce 

Powdered sugar J ounce 

Syrup, q. s. 

Put a piece size of pea in cage daily. 
Tonic. — 

^ Tincture cinchona ... \ drachm 

Tincture iron 2 drops 

Glycerine 1 drachm 

Caraway water 1 ounce 

Put a few drops on lump of sugar in 
cage daily. * * 

H — Compound tincture 

cinchona 2 drachms 

Compound tincture 

gentian 2 drachms 

^jrup orange 1 ounce 

simple elixir 8£ ounces 

tW n } a *? w drops on lump of sugar in 
ltle cage daily. v 



Antiseptic Wash for Cage Birds. — 

Chinosol, F 2 drachms 

Sugar (burnt) 20 minims 

Aqua cinnamon 4 ounces 

Aqua 20 ounces 

Add 1 or 2 teaapoonfuh to the hath 
water and allow the birds to use it, when 
it will quickly destroy all parasites or 
germs in the feathers. To wash out the 
cages, use a mixture of 1 tablespoonful 
in a pint of hot water. 

Mixed Bird Seed. — 

Sicily canary 10 ounces 

German rape 2 ounces 

Russian hemp 1 ounce 

German millet 3 ounces 



FOR HORSES AND CATTLE: 

Blistering. — Tincture cantharides, 1 
ounce; camphorated oil, \ ounce. Apply 
a portion with friction 3 times a day un- 
til a blister shows. As it subsides apply 
again. 

Horse -Colic Remedy. — I— In making 
a horse-colic remedy containing tincture 
of opium, ether and chloroform," to bt 
given in tablespoonful doses, apportior 
the ingredients about equally, and mr 
the dose with a pint of water. 

Other formulas are: 

II. Chloroform anodyne 1 ounce 

Spirit of nitrous 

ether 2 ounces 

Linseed oil 13 ounces 

Give in one dose and repeat in an hoi 
if necessary. 

Condition PowdeK.-I.-Sulphur, 

antimony, 4 pounu, ^ _ minc i- ro sin, 

I Sound.- TowdS'and -nix «0. 
n Gentian ^uno r ; po S iu f ( 

tiote, 1 ounce; » ul P?"\jLony, 4 ounces; 

* •»«-■ 

rosin, 2 ounces, x » • <> ounces; 

capsicum, * 9 ounce flaxseed meal, 

sodium sulphat ,^ loum*^ , fi 
16 ounces All ftd in fee d twi 



Sum sulphate, 9 ounces; 
lecSce.. All iagredien 
de T . Dose: 1 tablespoonful 

a day. 

_ Totjp For a colt 

Veterinary Dose labie. doge . 

mo nth old eve A oMhe^ f . 

months old, fr> D ' u v , s vearS old, . 

old, h « y ea 5,°i,ualiy the same dose 
Fluids or ca tie nhuaijj ^ uau . 

as for the bo " i=^ for the horse, 
ally li times the dose tor m 



730 



VETERINARY FORMULAS 



1 to 
1 to 
3 to 
i to 
1 to 
J to 



8 dr. 

3 dr. 
5 dr. 

2 oz. 

3 dr. 
3 dr. 



15 to 50 gr. 

3 to 5 dr. 
5 to 12 sr. 
1 to 4 dr. 
i to 2 ox. 

4 to 3 oz. 

4 to 12 gr. 
j to 2 3r. 

5 to 2d gr. 
1 to 2 dr. 

1 to 2 dr. 

2 to 3 qz. 
i to l£ oz. 
i to 1 dr. 
1 to 3 dr. 
i to 2 dr. 
1 to o dr. 

15 to 30 min. 
10 to 20 gr. 
I to 2 dr. 
Ho 1 oz. 
i to 2\ oz. 
i to 2 dr. 



1 to 5 dr. 



Aloes 

Alum 

Aaua ammonia. . . ■ • 
Amroonia bromide .. 
Ammonia carbonate. 

Ammonia iodide 

Antimony blactc .... 

Arecanut. 

Arsenic 

Asafetida. 

Belladonna leaves... 

Buohu leaves 

Calaber bean 

Camphor 

Cantharides 

Capsicum 

Catechu 

Chalk preparation.. . 

Chloral hydrate. 

Chloroform 

Cinchona 

Copper sulphate 

Creolin 

Creosote 

Digitalis leaves 

Dover powder 

Ergot. 

Ether - ■ 

Ex. belladonna fluid . 
Extract buchu fluid . 
Extract cannabis in- 

diea • 

Fcenugreek 

Gallnuts 

Gentian 

Ginger 

Ipecac 

Iron carbonate 

Iron sulphate 

Juniper berries 

Limewater 

Magnesia sulphate.. . 

Mustard 

Nux vomica 

Oil castor 

Oil Croton 

Oil juniper 

Oil linseed 

Oil olive 

Oil savin 

Oil turpentine 

Opium 

Potassium iodide.. . 
Potassium nitrate. . 
Potassium sulphide. . 

Quinine 10 to 30 

Rhubarb 

Santonine 

Sodium hyposulphite 
Sodium sulphate. . . . 
Sodium sulphite .... 
Spirits ammonia, aro- 
matic 

Spirita chloroform. . , 
Spirits nitrous ether . 
Spirits p_eppermint. . 
Strychnine sulphite.. 

Sulphur.. 

Tincture aconite .... 
Tincture asafetida . 
Tincture belladonna 
Tincture cantharides 
Tincture columbo. . . 
Tincture digitalis. . . . 

Tincture iron 

Tincture ginger 

tincture nux vomica, 

Imeture opium 

Tobacco .... 

Vinegar ' 

Whisky--- 

White vitriol . ".'"'* ' 



1 to 
1 to 

3 to 

1 to 

2 to 
1 to 



2 oz. 

3 dr. 
5 dr. 
2 oz. 
5 dr. 
5 dr. 



5 to 12 gr. 

1 to 2oz. 
4 to 2 oe. 
| to 4 oz. 
4tol2gr. 

2 to 3 dr. 
12 to 30 gr. 

1 to 3 dr. 

2 to 4 dr. 
2 to 4 oz. 
£ to 14 ciz. 
J to 2 dr. 



i to 

1 to 

2 to 
1 to 



2 oz. 

3 dr. 
5 dr. 
2 dr. 



20 to 50 gr. 
J to 2 dr. 
J to 1 oz. 

1 to 3 oz. 

2 to 4 dr. 



Astringent. — 

L— Opium is grains 

Camphor J drachm 

, Catechu I drachm 

One dose. 

Opium la 

Camphor 1 

Ginger 2 

Castile soap 2 

Anise 3 

Licorice 2 



II 




grains 
drachm 
drachms 
drachms 
drachm s 

drachms 

Contracted Hoof or Sore Feet, — 

I. — Lard 

Yellow wax 

Linseed oil. -Equal parts. 

Venice turpentine.. . . 

Tar , 

Apply to the edge of the hair once a 
day. 

II. — Rosin 4 ounces 

Lard 8 ounces 

Melt and add 

Powdered vertigris. . . 1 ounce 
Stir well; when partly cool add 

Turpentine 2 ounces 

Apply to hoof about 1 inch down from 
the hair. 

Cough. — 

I. — Sodii bromide ISO grains 

Creosote water 2 ounces 

Fennel water 4 ounces 

Half tablespoonfnl 4 times daily. 

II. — Ammonia bromide. . . ISO grains 

Fennel water 4 ounces 

Syrup licorice 4 ounces 

Teaspoonful 4 times daily. 

Cow Powder. — 

Powdered catechu ... CO grains 

Powdered ginger 240 grams 

Powdered gentian. . . . 240 grains 

Powdered opium SO grains 

CUTS, WOUNDS, SORES. 

I. — Tincture opium, 2 ounces; tannin. 
I ounce. . e 

II. — Tincture aloes, 1 ounce; tm« 
of myrrh, £ ounce; tincture ot "P lu Di( ; h t 
ounce; water, 4 ounces. Apply <» 
and morning. 4 

III. -Lard, 4 ounces; be**^ j 
ounces; rosin, 2 ounces; carbolic * 
ounce. 

Diarrhoea. — 

I. — Opium 

Peppermint 

Linseed meal ...... * "^ind* 

Give half in morning and ^ ter . 
in evening in a pint of warm 



15 S rai *? 
1 ounce 

I ounce 



VETERINARY FORMULAS 



731 



t t . prepared chalk 6 ounces 

U ' Catechu 3 ounces 

Opium 1* ounces 

Ginger.. f ° uncea 

Gentian 3 ounces 

0ne powder 3 times a day in half a 
pint of warm water. One-sixth of dose 
for calves. 

Diuretic Ball. — 

T— Oil juniper ^ drachm 

Rosin 2 drachms 

Saltpeter 2 drachms 

Camphor i drachm 

Castile soap 1 ounce 

Flaxseed meal.. .... 1 ounce 

Make 1 pill- 

0.— Rosin 90 grains 

Potassium nitrate.. . 90 grams 

Po huchu leaves. ... 45 grains 
Dose: 1 twice a day. 

Drying Drink. — 

Powdered alum 6 ounces 

Armenian bole 2 ounces 

Powdered juniper ber- 
ries \ ounce 

Once daily in 1 quart of warm gruel. 

Epizooty or Pinkeye. — 

Sublimed sulphur .... \ ounce 

Epsom salt 1 ounce 

Charcoal \ ounce 

Extract licorice 1 ounce 

Fever. — 

I. — Salicylic acid f ounce 

Sodium bicarbonate.. \ ounce 
Magnesium sulphate. 10 ounces 

Give half in. quart of warm bran water 
at night. 

— ^P^its niter 3 ounces 

Tincture aconite 2 drachma 

Fluid extract bella- 
donna J ounce 

titrate potash 2 ounces 

Muriate ammonia ... 2 ounces 

Water, q. s 1 quart 

till lSte r reaSp ° 0n * ul CVery 2 or 3 k Qurs 

ounc^- VeS *-~^" ^' — Balsam copaiba, 1 
b a i 3a ' s P lnts of turpentine, 2 ounces; 
ounces. 1 ounce ; ci der vinegar, 16 

Tables P°onf u ] once a day. 

«iSCT? a ? tpeter ' 1 ounce; indigo, $ 
Don-TV 1 ? r di sti]]ed water, 4 pints. 
0se - 1 pint twice a da- 



Hide Bound. — 

Elecampane... 2 ounces 

.Licorice root g ounces 

Joenugreek 3 ounces 

* osm 2 ounces 

Copperas j ounce 

£ m ?? r « drachms 

gentian j drachm 

fealtpeter i drachm 

Valerian i drachm 

ianseed meal 3 ounces 

Sublimed sulphur.. . . 1 ounce 

Black antimony 4 drachms 

Tablespoonful twice a day. 

HORSE EMBROCATIONS AND LINI- 
MENTS. 

I. — Camphor 1 ounce 

Acetic acid 15 ounces 

Alcohol 18 ounces 

Oil turpentine 51 ounces 

Eggs i 6 

Distilled witch hazel . 45 ounces 

II. — Iodine 50 grains 

Pot iodide 125 grains 

Soap liniment 6 ounces 

INFLUENZA. 
I. — Ammonia muriate. . . l£ ounces 

Gum camphor J ounce 

Pot chloride 1 ounce 

Extract licorice, pow- 
dered 2 ounces 

Molasses, q. s. 
Make a mass. Dose: Tablespoonful 
in form of pill night and morning. 

II, — Ammonium chloride. 30 parts 

Potassium nitrate.. . . 30 parts 
Potassium sulphate in 

little crystals 100 parts 

Licorice powder 65 parte 

Mix. Dose: A tablespoonful, in a 
warm mash, 3 times daily. 
INFLAMMATION OF THE UDDER. 
L-Salicylic acid - ■ • 40 grams 
Mercurial ointment. . 1 OUDC ^ 
Liniment of camphor 8} ounces 
Apply and rub the udder carefully 
twice a day. 

H._BeUadonna ™t J 

Oil turpentine J 

Mi* and nmke aiming. Bathetic 
udder several times witn noi 
Dry and apply above liniment. 



VETERINARY FORMULAS 



oId .fashioned lotion of trair i og and 
«V trSir ometn^g^'wanted 
st ^ L f wm Sectnally destroy the para- 
l? Ch in Lrness an! saddlery without 
tn those expensive materials, 
^rcre-ole emuIsSns and coal- tar 

sarcopts it brou ^ 1th id „ es G f ac- 

bUt VKlafe is I suSnt retreat 
cuinu ated grease i d _ 

unc a tor; V ffiffiction, and but a few lays 
•n i« I r,PPded to reproduce a new and 
W - lU ™ stock A cheap and efficient 

Wf an hour. It should be applied warm, 
or immediliely after washing with soft 
soap. 

Milk Powder for Cows.— For increas- 
ing the flow of milk, in cows, Hager rec- 
ommends the following mixture: 
Potassium nitrate .... 1 part 

Alum } P ar y 

Sublimed sulphur 1 part 

Prepared chalk 1 part 

White bole 3 parts 

Bed clover & parts 

Anise 10 P arts 

Fennel 10 parts 

Salt • ■ ■ - 10 P^ts 

All should be in tolerably fine powder 
and should be well mixed. The direc- 
tions are to give 1 or 2 handf uls with the 
morning feed. 

LAXATIVES. 

I. — Aloes 1 drachm 

Soap 12 drachms 

Caraway 4 drachms 

Ginger 4 drachms 

Treacle, q. s. 

Make 4 balls. Dose: 1 daily. 

II. — Rochelle salts 2 ounces 

Aloes, powdered ISO grains 

Linseed meal 150 grains 

One dose, given in warm water. 

Lice. — 

Crude oil 1 ounce 

Oil tar 1 ounce 

Oil cedar, 1 drachm 

Cottonseed oil 5 ounces 

Apply to parts. 

DOMESTIC PETS. 

The sarcoptic itch of the dog, as well 
as ^at of the cat, is transmissible to man. 
The Tinea tonsurans, the so-called 



barbers' itch, due to a trychophyton, and 
affecting both the dog and cat, is highly 
contagious to man. tavus Tinea ]av 0a 
caused by achonon schoenlemi, of Do ^ 
animals, is readily transmissible to hu- 
heinss. The dog carries in Wi. 



man Demgs. - Vfc , ^.^a ln hls 

intestines many kinds of twnia (t ape . 
worm), among them _ Teem a cchinococ- 
ciis, the eggs of which cause hydatic 
cysts. Hydatic cysts occur in persons 
who arc always surrounded with dogs, 
or in constant contact with them. 

Aviar diphtheria (i. e., the diphtheria 

■U.'x.leA <"titi«Pfl hv R.t. lpfist twn nr, i r-fr. 



of birds), caused by at least two microbes 
(bacillus of Klebs-Loefher and bacillus 
coli), may easily be transmitted to man 
and cause in him symptoms analogous 
to those of true diphtheritic angina. 

Parrots are subject to an infectious 
enteritis which may be communicated 
to human beings, giving rise to the so- 
called psittacosis (from the Greek, 
psitta, a parrot), of which there have 
been a number of epidemics in France. 
It is determined by the bacillus of No- 

card. . . 

Human tuberculosis is certainly trans- 
mitted to dogs, cats, and birds. Cadiot, 
Gibert, Roger, Benjamin, Petit, and 
Basset, as well as other observers, cite 
cases where dogs, cats, and parrots, 
presenting all the lesions of tuberculosis, 
were shown to have contracted it from 
contact with human beings; while there 
are no recorded cases, there can scarcely 
be a natural doubt that man may, in J 
similar manner, become attainted through 
them, and that their tuberculosis con 
stitutes an actual danger to man- 
Need we recall here the ^ordinary 
facility with which hydrophobia i .com 
municated to man through the dog, cat, 

etc.? i t i,„f vre 

We may, therefore, conclude that 
should not permit these animals M* tjj 
up so much space in our apart* d 
nor should they be petted and car og 
either by adults or children m th \ oase . 
less manner common in nra ,J ^ 
holds. The disgusting habit ot ea 

animals to take bits of fo°*' ' jg* of 
sugar, etc., from between trie ^ fce 
members of the family is & iSV 
shunned. 1 should b e 

Finally, any or all of them s en t 
banished from the house tn« ; &r 
that thev display certain moro \ lieT e 
toms. Besides, in certain o» - nS t 
should be a rigid prophyla^J, f 0 r 
certain diseases— as echinoco 
instance. i 

, to* 10 

Worms.-In cats and dog is tU 
worms, of which ascaris mjf 



VETERINARY FORMULAS 



733 



most common in 



cats, are found chiefly J 
This worm has hir- 
in 7 dung *d a (,es "somewhat resembling 
sute apP e " b To treat tul animal 111- 
a mustacne. « guesta ,» the patient 

f it JVade to* fast for 24 hours, 
shouia n i ... i ffra in of santonin, 

For t a f;Sn or two for large cats, fol- 
up to a by a dose of castor oil, 

i0VVed '"tended To avoid spilling the 
« 'animal's coai the "doctor" 

° ?ld have it heated and whipped with 
should ftav h w to t cats to 

W f \ to smear it on the bottoms of 

* Areca nut, freshly ground by the drug- 
eisfhiinself and administered' in liberal 
££es say 30 to 60 grains, wi 1 usually 
drive out any worms in the alimentary 

^t is important that animals success- 
ful treated for worms once should 
.undergo the treatment a second or third 
time, as all the parasites may not have 
been killed or removed the first time, 
or their progeny may have developed m 
the field vacated by the parents. 

The following is an effective formula: 
German wormsecd, 

powdered 1 drachm 

Fluid extract of spi- 

gelia 3 drachms 

Fluid extract of senna. 1 drachm 
Fluid extract of vale- 
rian 1 drachm 

Syrup of buckthorn . . 2 ounces 
Dose: From £ to 1 tcaspoonful night 
and morning. 

Foot Itch.— The itch that affects the 
feet of poultry is contagious in a most 
Insidious way. The various birds of a 
poultry yard in which the disease is 
prevalent, rarely contract it until after a 
comparatively long period of exposure, 
but sooner or later every bird will con- 
tract it. One infected bird is enough^ to 
infect a whole yard full, and once in- 
fected, it is exceedingly difficult to get 
™ of. The disease, however, affects 
D uds only. 
TV 

a he treatment is simple. Having 
softened the feet by keeping them for 
some minutes in tepid water, the scabs 
a 'rr° VeT tllem are carefully detached, 
tn°v.i ?' as fai as possible, causing them 
tL • ' and taking the precaution of 
growing every scab into the fire. The 
soft then carefully dried, with a bit of 
*aw?°f °? material . which should after- 
isJr , urr >ed; then the entire surface 



Protect the ointment by a proper ap- 
pliance, and allow it to remain in contact 
2 or 3 days. At the end of this time re- 
move the applications and wash off with 
tepid suds. The bird will generally be 
found cured, but if not, repeat the treat- 
ment—removing the remaining scabs, 
which will be found soft enough without 
resorting to soaking in tepid water, ana 
apply the ointment directly. 

There is another method of treatment 
that has been found successful, which 
not only cures the infected birds but 
prevents the infection of others. It is 
simply providing a sand bath for the 
birds, under a little shed, where they can 
indulge themselves in rolling and scratch- 
ing, the bath being composed of equal 
parts fine sand, charcoal m fine powder, 
ashes, and flowers of sulphur, sifted 
together. The bath should be renewed 
every week. In the course of a fei 
weeks the cure is complete. 

Foods. — 



lg Co - "mjicu; men tne enure sui jaw 
j^J!'* ointment (U nguentvm sul- 
ci cli j 1 ? um )- A n alcoholic solution 
01 Canada balsam ii 



I. — Powdered egg shell or 

phosphate of lime. 4 

Iron sulphate . . 4 

Powdered capsicum. . 4 
Powdered Foenugreek 2 
Powdered black pep- 
per ■ • • • I 

Silver sand 2 



Powdered lentils 
A tablespoonful to 



ounces 
ounces 
ounces 
ounces 

ounce 

ounces 

ounces 



be mixed wit! 



ounces 

ounce 

ounces 



sufficient feed for 20 hens. 

II. — Oyster shell, ground. 

Magnesia - 

Calcium carbonate.. 

Bone, ground 1J ounces 

Mustard bran H ounces 

Capsicum 1 ounce 

Powders. — 
I— Cayenne pepper J 

Ginger •• 

id mix well 
be mixed 



Powder an< 



teaspoonful to 



together, 
with ever 



d of food, and fed 2 or 8 



times 



feed fresh meat, finely 



is preferred by some. 



poun< 

week. Also 
chopped. 

H^Powdered egg shells.. 4 par s 

1 Powdered capsicum- J P a g 

Sulphate of iron - r - e - J P 
Powdered Fouiugreeu * v 

Powdered black pep- . ^ 
per % parts 

hens. 



784 



Lice Powders. — 
j, — Sulphur 



VETERINARY FORMULAS VINEGAR 

pump and direct the stream from th 
pump back into_ the mixture. Th 

=e toot, 
hile boil 



4 ounces 

Tobacco dust". ...... 6 ounces 

Cedar oil 1 ounce 

White hellebore 4 ounces 

Crude naphthol 1 ounce 

• pounds 



e 



place ttore 
d vf] " 



Powdered chalk, q. s, 

H.— Sulphur 1 ounce 

Carbolic acid jounce 

Crude naphthol 1 ounce 

Powdered chalk... .. 1 pound 
Roup or Gapes.— Roup in poultry is 
caused by the presence of parasites 
entozoa in the windpipe. Y oung birds 
are most commonly affected. The best 
method of treatment is to expose the 
affected bird to the fumes of heated 
earbolic acid until on the point of sutio- 
eation. The bird may be placed m a 
box with a hot brick, and carbolic acid 
placed thereon. The fowls soon re- 
cover from the incipient suffocation, and 
are. almost always freed from the disease. 
Care must be taken to burn the parasites 
coughed out, and the bodies of any birds 
which may die of the disease. I he 
following powders for the treatment of 
"roup" in poultry have been recom- 
mended: 

I. — Potassium chlorate . . 1 ounce 
Powdered cubebs.. . . 1 ounce 

Powdered anise jounce 

Powdered licorice.. , . l| ounces 
Mix a teaspoonf ul with the food for 20 
hens. 

II. — Ammonium chloride. 1 ounce 

Black antimony \ ounce 

Powdered anise £ ounce 

Powde/ed squill £ ounce 

Powdered licorice. ... 2 ounces 
Mix and use in the foregoing. 

FOR SHEEP: 

Dips. — For ih.n prevention of "scab" 
in sheep, which results from the burrow- 
ing of an acarus or the destruction of the 
parasite when present, various prepara- 
tions of a somewhat similar character 
are used. The following formulas for 
sheep dips are recommended by the 
United States Department of Agriculture: 

I. — Soap. 1 pound 

Crude carbolic acid. . 1 pint 

Water. 50 gallons 

Dissolve the soap in a gallon or more 
of boiling water, add the acid, and stir 
thoroughly. 

II- — Fresh skimmed milk . . 1 gallon 

Kerosene 2 gallons 

Churn together until emulsified, or 
mix and put i,\to the mixture a force 



pump . 

ernulsification will take 
rapidly if the milk be adde 
ing hot. 

Use 1 gallon of this emulsion to each 
10 gallons of water required. 

Constipation. — 

i, — Green soap 150 grains 

Linseed oil 1^ ounces 

Water 15 ounces 

G-ive | every £ hour till action takes 
place. 

II. — Calomel. Ingrains 

Sugar 15 grains 

One dose. 

Loss of Appetite. — 

Sodium sulphate, 

dried 90 grains 

Sodium bicarbonate. . 30 grains 

Rhubarb 30 grains 

Calamus 90 grains 

Form the mass into 6 pills. Give one 
twice daily. 

Inflammation of the Eyes. — 

Zinc sulphate 20 grains 

Mucilage quince seed. 4 ounces 
Distilled water 4 ounces 

Bathe eyes twice daily. 



Vinegar 

I —Into a hogshead with a large bung- 
hole put 1,500 parts, by weight, of honey, 
125 parts of carob-pods, cut into pieces, 
50 parts of powdered red or white 
potassium bitartrate, 125 parts of pow- 
dered tartaric acid, 2,000 parts ui raism 
stems, 400 parts of the best brewers 
/cast, or 500 of leaven rubbed up ™ 
ater; add 16,000 parts of triple vinega r 
and 34,000 parts of 40 per cent spmg 
containing no fusel oil. Stir a 11 vl |.j| 
ously together; fill up the hogshead jCTj 
hot water (100° P.), ^ se the bu "*i ]et 
with gauze to keep out insects a " 
the contents of the cask stand tor I 
4 to 6 weeks or until they have Jj ,rne Bl 
vinegar. The temperature ot tne 
should be from 77° to S8° F. t]j6 
Draw off half the vinegar, and rm jt 
hogshead up again with 15 parts 
water and 1 part of spirit (40 per . 

then draw off af» 



y 

wa 



Do this 4 times. 



vinejrar an 



d be 



the first process 



kins 



in*' 



over 
cat 



again. This method of ma 
is suitable for households ana V 0 «~ 
dealers, but would not suffice tor 



VINEGAR 



785 



„„fiicturers, since it would take 
s » Ie , m f to produce any large amount. 
t0 r ° Put into an upright wine cask 

thl too 14, 0°° P arts ' b ^ wei £ ht ' ■ 
^f\tVarm water! 2,333 parts of GO per 

cent ftlC rt S of powdered red or waite 
125 parts oi P of d 

rlTeTveXof nS pa&s of leaven, 
rS parts of triple vinegar, and stir 
L til | tfe substances are dissolved. Lay 
Un in+h and a perforated cover over the 
a i r Vnd let it stand in a temperature of 
ti 77° F- from 4 to 6 weeks; then 
Saw off the vinegar. The thick deposit 
at the bottom, the "mother of vinegar, 
t called, can be used in making more 
■ or Pour over it the same quan- 
SeTof water and alcohol used at first; 
but after the vinegar has been drawn off 
tw ce, half the first quantity of sugar and 
patasshim bitartrate and the whole 
Suantity of yeast, must be added. 1 his 
makes excellent vinegar. 

HI.— A good strong vinegar for house- 
hold use may be made from apple or 
pear peelings. Put the peelings in a 
stone jar (not glazed with lead) or m a 
cask, aud pour over them water and a 
little vinegar, fermented beer, soured 
wine, or beet j uice. Stir well, cover with 
a linen cloth and leave in a warm room. 
The vinegar will be ready in 2 or 3 weeks. 

IV.— Two wooden casks of any desired 
size, with light covers, are provided. 
They may be called A and B . A is filled 
with vinegar, a tenth part of this is 
poured off into B, and an equal amount 
of fermented beer, wine, or any other 
sweet or vinous liquid, or a mixture of 
1.1S5 parts, by weight, of alcohol, 11,500 
to 14,000 parts of water, and 1,125 parts 
of beet juice, put into A. 

When vinegar is needed, it is drawn 
out of B, an equal quantity is poured 
from A into B and the same quantity of 
vinegar-making liquids put into A. In 
tins way vinegar is constantly being 
made and the process may go on for 
years, proyided that the casks are large 
enough so that not more than a tenth of 
J&e contents of A is used in a week. If 
f?° is used, so that the vinegar in 

lot tirst cask bepnmp.? wpolf trip course 
of the 



or a 



f* th « -vinegar making is disturbed f 
an? v e ' and this fact > whose import- 
thi? \ not Deen understood, prevents 
the r 16 ™ 0 ' 1 — irL its essential principles 
laro est ~~ f fom being employed on a 
*rge scale. The surplus in A acts as a 

el^ 0 ? 1 ^ 0 Vinegar .—I .—Sixteen ounces 
' uai ace tvc acid. 40 drops oil of cloves, 



40 drops oil of rosemary, 40 drops oil 
of bergamot, 16 drops oil of neroli, 30 
drops oil of lavender, 1 drachm benzoie 
acid, £ ounce camphor, 30 to 40 drops 
compound tincture of lavender, 3 ounces 
spirit of wine. Dissolve the oils, the ben- 
zoic acid, and the camphor in the spirit 
of wine,, mix with acetic acid and shake 
until bright, lastly adding the tincture of 
lavender to color. 

II- — Dried leaves of rosemary, rue, 
wormwood, sage, mint, and lavende* 
flowers, each $ ounce; bruised nutmegs, 
cloves, angelica root, and camphor, eac 1 
\ of an ounce; rectified alcohol, 4 ounces; 
concentrated acetic acid, 16 ounces. 
Macerate the materials for a day in the 
alcohol; then add the acid and digest for 
1 week longer at a temperature of 490° F. 
Finally press out the now aromatise 
acid and filter it. 

Cider Vinegar. — By "artificial vine 
gar" is meant vinegar made by the quie* 
method with beechwood shavings. Th* 
cannot be carried out with any econom 
on a small scale, and requires a plan 1 
A modification of the regular plan is 
follows: Remove the head from a goo 
tight whisky barrel, and put in a wood 
faucet near the bottom. Fill the bar 
with corn cobs and lay an empty coife 
sack over them. Moisten the cobs b 
sprinkling them with some good, stron 
natural vinegar, and let them soak for 
few hours. After the lapse of 8 or ; 
hours draw off the vinegar ■and agai 
moisten the cobs repeating m> 
thev are rendered sour through? 
adefing each time 1 quart of. high win 
to the vinegar before throwing it ba 
on the cobs. This prevents the vmeg 
^le^ming flat bjti^Wptjg 

S£T«d U galh^o 
on the cobs Soak io ^ 
draw off and .pour cm y . 
Repeat this twice By ha 

beC ° m batrryTbirrds. SU S ay 4 f«r 

Ee made remunerative, f-PJfi m 

resi due of -|- m C ^ n sS a P le. etc., fro 
lasses, and the remnant uge 

the bar-rooms . around tm ^ 
All sugar-contaimng fruit may 

for vinegar making. 

VINEGAR, TESTS FOR: 

See Foods. 

VINEGAR, TOILET: 

See Cosmetics. 



WARTS WATCHMAKERS' FORMULAS 



VIOLET AMMONIA: 

gee Cosmetics. 

VIOLET WATER: 
See Perfumes. 

VIOLIN ROSIN: 

See Rosin. 
VIOLIN VARNISH: 

gee Varnishes. 

VISCOSE: 

See Celluloid. 

VOICE LOZENGES: 

See Confectionery. 
VULCANIZATION OF RUBBER: 

See Rubber. 

WAGON GREASE: 
See Lubricants. 

WALLS, DAMP: 

See Household Formulas. 

WALL AND WALL -PAPER CLEAN- 
ERS : 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods, also Household Formulas. 

WALL-PAPER DYES: 
See Dyes. 

WALL-PAPER PASTE: 

See Adhesives. 

WALL PAPER, REMOVAL OF: 
See Household Formulas. 

WALL WATERPROOFING: 

See Waterproofing and Household For- 
mulas. 

WALL PRIMING: 

See Paints. 

WALNUT: 

See Wood. 

WARMING BOTTLE: 

See Bottles. 

WARPING, PREVENTION OF: 

See Wood. 

Warts 

Wart Cure.^The following is espe- 
cially useful in cases where the warts 
«ee very numerous: 

I- — Chloral hydrate ■ 1 part 

Acetic acid 1 part 

Salicylic acid 4 parts 

Sulphuric ether 4 parts 

Collodion 15 parts 

Mix. Directions: Every morning ap- 
ply the foregoing to the warts, painting 
one coat gi? another. Should the mass 



fall off without taking the warts with ft, 
repeat the operation. Take, internally 
10 grains of burnt magnesia daily. 

II, — Sulphur. . 10 parts 

Acetic acid 5 parts 

Glycerine 25 parts 

Keep the warts covered with this 

mixture. 

WASHING FLUIDS AND POWDERS- 

See Laundry Preparations. 

WASTE, PHOTOGRAPHIC, ITS DIS, 
POSITION: 

See Photography. 

WATCH -DIAL CEMENTS: 

See Adhesives, under Jewelers' Ce- 
ments. 

WATCH GILDING: 

See Plating. 

Watchmakers' Formulas 

WATCH MANUFACTURERS' ALLOYS. 

Some very tenacious and hard alloys, 

for making the parts of watches which 

are not sensitive to magnetism, are as 

follows: , r TrT _ ___ 

I II in IV V VI VII 

Platinum. 62.75 62.75 62.75 54.32 0.5 0.5 - 
16.20 16.20 16 18.0 18.5 25 



Copper. . . 18 

Nickel 18 

Cadmium. 1.25 
Cobalt .... — 
Tungsten. — - 
Palladium — 
Silver .... — 
Rhodium . — 
Gold — 



18 
1.25 



16.50 24.70 — 2 

1.25 1.25 

1.50 1.99 — — 

1^80 1J0 1^7 - - 

_ — ' 6.5 7 



A non-magnetic alloy for watch- 
springs, wheels, etc. : Gold, 30 to 40 parts 
palladium, 30 to 40 parts; copper, iu " 
20 parts; silver, 0.1 to 5 per cent; ctrban 
0.1 to 3.5 per cent; tungsten, 0-1 to o p 
cent; rhodium, 0.1 to 5 per cent; P^ 1 
num, 0.1 to 5 per cent. 

An Alloy for Watch Pinion Socket- 
Gold, 31 parts; silver, 19 parts; copper, 
39 parts; palladium, 1 part- 
Replacing Rubies whose Settings ^£ 
Deteriorated.— Enlarge, with tne su ^ 
(steel brooch for enlarging /fl^ t it, 
hole of the old setting, and aaj ^ 



nolc ot tne oia sexiii»K» «*~r m ,'+v of » 
with hard rubbing, to the extregjJ {he 
stem of pierced brass wire. < ^ t y 
stem in an American nippers, ai fce 
ruby at the extremity (the setti n b ; sJl jng 
driven back by using a hat ^ » 
tool, very gently). Then take on e 
cleaving file the part of the stej ^ the 
the ruby is set, and dimmish , fin ger. 
thickness desired, by filing on " fill isbe d ' 
or on cork. These operations » 



WATCHMAKERS 1 FORMULAS 



737 



* tanner is obtained which now needs 
a ^ tS to be solidly fixed at the suitable 
hekht ^ the hole prepared. 
To Straighten Bent Teeth.-Bent teeth 
. -^htpned bv means of the screw- 
f CrSdS clever against the root of 
d if' Accent teeth, and bent pivots may 
jK^tn the jaws of the pliers and the 
he n \on hen with the fingers in the direc- 
pl mon Deni ^ required. For 

m f Purpose, pliers having the jaws 
S d X brass are used so that the 
Sisnot bruised, and the bending has 
to be done with great care, 

To Renew a Broken Barrel Tooth.— 
Frequently, in consequence of the break- 
•nPof a Spring, a tooth of a barrel is 
broken. Sometimes it may only be bent, 
[ n which case the blade of a penknife 
Say be used with care. If 2 or 3 suc- 
cessive teeth are lacking, the best way is 
to^change the barrel, but a single tooth 
m ay be easily renewed in this way: 
Drill a hole through the thickness of the 
tooth, taking care not to penetrate the 
drum; then fit in a piece of metal tightly 
and give it, as well as possible, the cor- 
rect form of the tooth. To assure 
solidity, solder it; then clean and round 
the edges, Properly executed the repair 
will scarcely be noticed. 

Heated Sawdust. — Sawdust is known 
to have been employed from time im- 
memorial by watchmakers and gold- 
smiths for the purpose of drying rinsed 
articles. The process of drying can be 
accelerated four-fold if the sawdust is 
heated before use. This must, however, 
be done with great caution and constant 
stirring. 

To Repair a Dial, etc., with Enamel 
Applied Cold. — There are two kinds of 
false enamel for application, when cold, 
to damaged dials. The first, a mixture 
of -white rosin and white lead, melts like 



— "inic iusih anu wivne ieaa, mens n*.c 
sealing wax, which it closely resembles. 
It is advisable when about to apply it to 
gently heat the dial and the blade of a 



iE ite, and with the knife cut the piece of 

th ai rr 6 1 tne rec L uisite size an(i lay it on 
ne dial. The new enamel must project 
somewhat above the old. When cold 
JJ| surface is i eveled by scraping, and a 
W.YY- ne surface is at once produced by 
flam S r at a little distance from the 
to T a s P irit lam P- ^ is necessary 
orwV ery ca reful in conducting this 
b," at l or1 ' as the least excess of heat will 
um the enamel and turn it yellow. It 
al'tC W i Ver ' Preferable to the following 
Ur<W 8 *S ore diffic ult to apply, as it is 
r anc » does not become dirty so 



soon. The second false enamel con- 
tains white lead mixed with melted 
white wax. It is applied like cement, 
neatly tiling up the. space and afterwards 
rubbing wjth tissue paper to produce a 
shining surface. If rubbed with a knife 
blade or other steel implement its surface 
will be discolored. 

Lettering a Clock Dial. — Painting 
Roman characters on a clock dial is not 
such a difficult task as might at first be 
imagined. If one has a set of drawing 
instruments and properly proportions the 
letters, it is really simple. The letters 
should be proportioned as follows: The 
breadth of an "I" and a space should 
equal J the breadth of an ,f X," that is, 
if the "X" is } inch broad, the "I" will 
be -, a f inch broad and the space between 
letters -rV inch, thus making the "I" plus 
one space equal to \ inch or half the 
breadth of an "X." The "V's" should 
be the same breadth as the "X's." After 
the letters have been laid off in pencil, 
outline them with a ruling pen and fill 
in with a small camel's-hair brush, using 
gloss black paint thinned to the proper 
consistency to work well in the ruling 
pen. Using the ruling pen to outline the 
Fetters gives sharp straight edges, which 
it would be impossible to obtain with a 
brush in the hands of an inexperienced 
person. 

Verification of the Depthings.— In the 
verge watches, the English watches, and 
those of analogous caliber^ it is often 
difficult to verify the depthings, except 
by the touch. For this reason we often 
find the upper plate pierced over each 
depth. In the jeweled places instead of 
perforating the upper plate, it suffices to 
deoosit a drop of very hmpid oil on the 
rX taking care that it does not scatter. 
In this manner a lens is formed and ona 
may readily distinguish the depthing. 

To Make or Enlarge a Dial H^-Bj 
wetting the graver or the ™ 

quicker. 

Tn T^enair a Repeating Clock-BeU.— • 

lt , and after having £ relHO ; n3| p „ ? h 
stem of the spring w a th 

h ? fM Tf' solder (pewter). The sound 
Snof have ehen'ged in any appreciable 

^eXc^'lose ahou. 



738 



sea 

icrease 



WATCHMAKERS 1 FORMULAS 

, a j „ n f i To Tighten a Ruby Pin.-- Set the ruU 
ond per dy for each^S degree^ ( ^ ^ f sp ^tum vamiA. ft.Wt? 



heat. A 
balance 



ill lose 6,11 



j p. in heat. . 

eaves or rollers so the arbor or 

T*? and fal en them in that position 
shaft and t a ?, te V pin i ons> " and they 
iSSCsJ^SZr^, a Uttle soft 
soW er should ^ 
Watchmakers' Oil. x. ; .. , 

allow to stan " ™ , d neu trahzes the 
fed, -Tihe^ullTs a, oil that never 
corrodes or thickens 



oil with water kept at the boiling point; 
Rafter the two fluids have separa ted 
_nt the oil and shake up with .il ittle 
freshly burned lime. Let the fixture 
stand for some weeks in a bottle ex 
poscJ to the sunlight and air, hut pro- 
ved from wet and dirt When filtered 
the oil will be nearly colorless, perfectly 
limpid, and will never thicken or be- 
come rancid. 

To Weaken a Balance Spring— A bal- 
ance spring may need weakening; this is 
effected by grinding the spring thinner 
Remove the spring from the collet and 
place it upon a piece of pegwood cut to 
fit the center coil. A piece of soft iron 
wire, flattened so as to pass freely be- 
tween the coils and charged with a little 
powdered oilstone, will serve as a grinder, 
and with it the strength of the spring may 
soon be reduced. Operations will be con- 
fined to the center coil, f or no other part 
of the spring will rest sufficiently against 
the wood to enable it to be ground, but 
this will generally suffice. The effect will 
be rather rapid; therefore care should be 
taken or the spring may be made too 
weak. 

To Make a Clock Strike Correctly. — 
Pry the plates apart on the striking side, 
slip the pivots of the upper wheels out, 
and having disconnected them from the 
train, turn them partly around and put 
them back. If still incorrect, repeat the 
experiment. A few efforts at most will 
get them to work properly. The sound 
in cuckoo clocks is caused by a wire act- 
ing on a small bellows which is connected 
with two small pipes like organ pipes. 

To "Reblack Clock Hands. — One coat 
of asphaltum varnish will make old rusty 
hands look as good as new, and will dry 
in a few minutes. 



pm in aspi 

come hard in a few minutes and be much 
firmer and better than the gum shellac, 
generally used. 

To Loosen a Rusty Screw in a Watch 
Movement. — Put a little oil around the 
screw; heat the head lightly by means of 
a red-hot iron rod, applying the same for 
g or 3 minutes. The rusty screw may 
then be removed as easily as though it 
had just been put in. 

Gilding Watch Movements. (See alsc 
Gilding.) — In gilding watch movements, 
the greatest care must be observed with 
regard to cleanliness. The work is first 
to be placed into a weak solution of caustic 
potash for a few minutes, and then rinsed 
in cold water. The movements are now 
to be dipped into pickling acid (nitrous 
acid) for an instant, and then plunged 
immediately into cold water. After being 
finally rinsed in hot water, they may he 
placed in the gilding bath and allowed 
to remain therein until they have re- 
ceived the required coating. A few 
seconds will generally be sufficient, as 
this class of work does not require to be 
very strongly gilt. When gilt, the move- 
ments are to be rinsed in warm water, 
and scratch-brushed; they may then be 
returned to the bath, for an instant, to 
ive them a good color. Lastly, rinse 
hot water and place the movements 
in clean box sawdust. An economical 
mode of gilding watch movements is to 
employ a copper anode— working from 
the solution, add 10 parts of cream of 
tartar and a corresponding quantity^ 
elutriated chalk to obtain a pulp ™ 
can be put on with the brush g 
gilding or silvering obtained m 
manner is V^^^t^S^ 



m 



At the present time this method 



seldom employed, since the e } e f T Y ilng 
ing affords a means of producing tfWJ* 
and silvering in a handsome aI1 tal]lC 
parativelv cheap manner, tne t» Gold 
coating having to be but very uun- 3 
and silver for this kind of voik " , d 
in the form of potassium .?y a ^f atio ,?s, « 
or potassium cyanide of silvei so 
being a custom to copper the W sjace 
previouslv by the aid of a ba " t'haiid- 
the appearance will then be ^jjdtotf o r 
than on zinc alone. , p0 l- 

. . . u<'«-' .'j ; u i* 

3 d-oil 



somer tnan on zmu alone. "by po 
silvering with leaf metal is don * ( ^ 
Ishing the surface of the zinc "P^d-o' 1 
coating it with a very tougn ia a- 
varnish diluted with 10 times tn ^ ^ 
tity of benzol. The metallic iea 
laid on and polished with an ^ 



WATER 



739 



WATCHERS' CLEANING PREP- 

Se fffi N g S Preparaticn S and Moth- 

°t MOVEMENTS, PALLADIUM 
WAT p C LATiNG OF: 

See Plating- 

Water, Natural and Artiti- 
ciai 

t. making an artificial mineral water 
In mawng ^ b d that vt is sel- 

it must „i b]e to reproduce the water 

^e?df~Hibi ? ning ^ chemical corn- 
by merely co ^ ^ , g 

P f fh i water cannot serve as a basis from 
which o Prepare it, because even though 
11 nf the components were put together 
many would V found insoluble, and 
Shers would form new chemical com- 
WnSons, so that the result would differ 
&y from the mineral water imitated. 

For example, carbonate of magnesia 
and carbonate of lime, which are im- 
portant ingredients m most mineral 
waters, will not make a clear solution 
unless freshly precipitated. Hence, 
when these are to be reproduced in a 
mineral water it is customary to employ 
other substances which will dissolve at 
once, and which will, upon combining^ 
produce these salts. The order m which 
the salts are added is also a very im- 
portant matter, for by dissolving the 
salts separately and then carefully com- 
bining them, solutions may be effected 
which would be impossible were all the 
salts added together to the water in the 
portable fountain. 

In this connection the following table 
will be found useful: 

Group 1 

Ammonium carbon- Sodium carbonate. 



Magnesium 
ph. ate. 



ate. 

Ammonium chloride . 
Sodium borate (bo- 
rax). 

Potassium carbon- 
ate. 

potassium chloride, 
potassium nitrate. 
^oUssium sulphate, 
oodium bromide. 



Sodium chloride. 
Sodium fluoride. 
Sodium iodide. 
Sodium nitrate. 
Sodium phosphate. 
Sodium pyrophos- 
phate. 
Sodium silicate. 
Sodium sulphate. 



Acid hydrochloric 
Acid sulphuric. 
Iron chloride. 



Group 2 
Lithium carbonate. 
Group 3 

^^inum chloride. Magnesium chlo- 
gjnum chloride. ride. 

a cium bromide. Ma trnesium nitrate. 
J* cium chloride. Strontium chloride- 
^aicmm nitrate. Lithium chloride. 



Group 4 
a u 1 - Alum (potassa or 
soda alum). 

Group 5 

Lime carbonate. Lime sulphate pre- 
Magnesium carbon- cipitate. 
ate hydrate. 

Group 6 

Lithium carbonate. Iron pyrophosphate. 

Iron sulphate. 
Manganese chloride. 
Manganese sulphate. 

Group 7 

Sodium arseniate, or sodium sulphide, 
or acid hydrosulphuric. 

Explanation, of Groups. — The explana- 
tion of the use of these groups is simple. 
"When about to prepare an artificial 
mineral water, first ascertain from the 
formula which of the ingredients belong 
to group 1 . These should be dissolved in 
water, and then be filtered and added to 
distilled water, and thoroughly agitated. 
Next the substance or substances be- 
longing to group 1 should be dissolved 
in water, then filtered and added to the 
water, which should again be agitated. 
\nd so the operation should proceed; 
whatever ingredients are required from 
each group should be taken in turn a 
solution made, and this solution, after 
being filtered, should be separately add- 
ed to the fountain, and the latter be well 
agitated before the following solution is 

ad For groups 1, 3, and 4, the salts should 
be dissolveS in 5 times their weigh of 
boiling or 10 times their weight of cold, 
wa er' For group * (lithium carbonate 
the proportions should be j, |*ff s 3 
lithium carbonate to abou t 18 
cold or boi ing water The "brtance 
mentioned in group 5 «r d rtea to 
portable fountain in their solid 
absolve best when f a e ,% P e f Son, 
As carbonic acid gas aids ther r 

* b b |£? .M ate tZroughly, blow- 
are added, a . ntt * 6 "£* war ds f necessary, 
in* off the cha /g e af fSna carbonate s 
% group I i the t ^ up g), 

dissolved in the acius ;se &re ^ 

the iron and nianganew » f 
solved in 5 parts g « u ^f| uick ly Stored, 
cold, water, the solution q ^ w hole 
the acids /^/^^rfountain already 
mixture added to t lie r y y 
charged with ja , the ^ap * ure d in. 
taken .off, and the sm j 
The iron •»f nl £j;Krbidity, therefore 
oxidi^ «\ £pduce Sould be carefully 
the atmospheric air 



740 



WATEH 



blown off under high pressure several 
Smes while charging i..u»i«w« l! 



fountains, 
in group 7 



are 



Sate of sodium in the case of Vichy 
water, which contains but a trifling amount 

^S^ofS^tions may he prepared 
beforehand and be used when required, 
thus savins: considerable time, 
rformulls for various waters will be 
•riven at the end of this article. 
P A question which arises in preparing 
mineral waters is: What is the best 
3a "in- pressure? As a general rule, they 
SSfrrged to a lower pressure than plain 
soda; good authorities even recommend 
charging certain mineral waters as low as 
30 pounas pressure to the square inch, but 
this seems much too low a pressure for 
the dispensing counter From 50 to 120 
pounds pressure would be a good limit, 
while plain soda may be served out as 
high as 180 pounds. There must be 
enough pressure completely to empty the 
fountain, while enabling sufficient gas to 
be retained by the water to give it a 
thorough pungency. Moreover, a high 
pressure to the mineral water enables a 
druggist at a pinch, when he runs outof 
plain soda, to use his Vichy water, in- 
stead, with the syruped drinks. The taste 
of the Vichy is not very perceptible when 
covered bythe syrup, and most custom- 
ers will not notice it. 

Apollinaris Water. — 

Sodium carbonate. . . . 2,835 grains 

Sodium sulphate 335 grains 

Sodium silicate 10 grains 

Magnesium chloride. 198 grains 

Calcium chloride 40 grains 

Potassa alum 57 grains 

Magnesium carbon- 
ate hydrate 158 grains 

Iron sulphate 21 grains 

Hunyadi Water. — 

Magnesium sulphate. 400 parts 

Sodium sulphate 400 parts 

Potassium sulphate . , 2 parts 

Sodium chloride 31 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate.. 12 parts 
Water 1 quart 

Litbia Water. — 

Lithium carbonate. . . 120 grains 
Sodium bicarbonate, 1,100 grains 
Carbonated water 10 gallons 

r t ?- or "* m " lithia water, substitute 
lithium citrate for the carbonate in the 
above formula. 

Seltzer Water. — Hydrochloric acid 
^chemically pure), 2,520 grains; pure 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
part 



water, 40 ounces. Mix and add raarkl 
dust, 240 grains; carbonate of magnesium? 
420 grains. Dissolve, and after 1 
add bicarbonate of sodium, 2,540 erain^ 
Dissolve, then add sufficient pure Wat f; 
to make 10 gallons. Filter and eharS 
to 100 pounds pressure. ge 

Vichy Water. — The following formula 
based on the analysis of Bauer-StrW 
yields an imitation of ' 

Vichy (Grande Grille). 

Sodium iodide 0.016 parts 

Sodium bromide. .. . 0.08 parts 
Sodium phosphate . . 2 

Sodium silicate 80 

Potassium sulphate . 125 
Sodium chloride .... 139 
Sodium carbonate. . . 6,792 
Aluminum chloride. 1 
Strontium chloride. . 1 part 
Ammonium chloride 3 parts 
Magnesium chloride 24 parts 
Calcium chloride . . . 170 parts 
Manganese sulphate 0.46 parts 

Iron sulphate 1 part 

Sulphuric acid 40 parts 

Water to make 10 gallons 

Mix the first 7 ingredients with about 
10 times their weight of water and filter. 
In the same manner, mix the next 5 
ingredients with water and filter; and 
then the last 3 ingredients. Pour these 
solutions into sufficient water contained 
in a fountain to make 10 gallons, and 
charge at once with carbon dioxide gas. 

Waters like the above are more^ cor- 
rectly named "imitation" than arti- 
ficial," as the acidic and basic radicals 
may bear different relations to one an- 
other in the natural and the other. 

PURIFYING WATER. 

See also Filters. 

If an emulsion of clay is poured into a 
soap solution, the clay gradually 
out without clarifying the liquid, v 
a . i „ ~c i.t^nMnnc acid, aojv 

ev 

small quantity— uuuui. r- j- ui(1 
a clay emulsion poured in, h a 

clarifies at once, with formation 
plentiful sediment. Exactly w? ^ $ts 
process takes place when the _ Jn 
waters from the combing P™ L y be 
spinning are treated wiU ti Claj' 
waters which remain turbid tor ^ 
days contain 500 to 800 grams oi ^ j 
substances per cubic meter. ^ y j s 
liter of this liquid 1 gram oi ■ • teIl 
added, with 15 to 20 per cent oi gt ^ 
the liquid clarifies with se P a $ "bro* 11 
sediment and assumes a goia 



mi wunuiiL clamping ., i n ~ 

, few drops of hydrochloric acid, m 
ver, are added to a soap solution an 
-about 1.5 per cent 



WATER — WATERPROOFING 



741 



Resides the fatty substances, this 
eo or. B f 5 ' ^ on tains u certain quantity 
£p° sit ^ousbodii. Driedat(10U°C.) 

* l2 ° h SO pefcent of fat. The grease 
contains 30 pe q£ gQod quaht 

obtained i roi " . 050 p. After removal 
.nd dehquescesut 95 ^ 1>19 

^ent of nitrogen. ^ 
Starvation ^ (Hsinfect and 

sterilize l.« J d chloride of lime are 
0.15 parts oi arv^ .. ^ & 

sufficient- t j j n pas te and intro- 

Uttle 1*3*5 rring >tothe water to be 
duced, f 7 st rnn^ ^ offidnal 

disinfected and a tew l After 

RSStod^itiS and disinfection 
iSmpiished, whereupon 0.3 parts 0 f 
is accowp added, in order to 

chlorine. 

Clarifying Muddy Water.— The water 
supply from rivers is so muddy at times 
S it will not go through the filter 
When this happens agitate each barrel 
of water with 2 pounds of phosphate of 
lime and allow it to settle This will 
take but a few minutes, and it will be 
found that most of the impurities have 
been carried down to the bottom. J. he 
water can then be drawn off carefully 
and filtered. 

Removal of Iron from Drinking 
Water.— The simplest method for re- 
moving the taste of iron in spring water 
is to pass the water through a filter con- 
taining a layer of tricalcic phosphate 
either in connection with other filtering 
materials or alone. The phosphate is 
first recovered in a gelatinous form, then 
dried and powdered. 

For Hardness. — A solution perfectly 
adapted to this purpose, and one which 
may be kept a long time, is prepared as 
follows: 

Thirty-five parts of almond oil an; 
mixed with 50 parts of glycerine of 
1.26 specific gravity and 8.5 parts of 50 
per cent soda lye, and boiled to saponifi- 
catiou. To this mixture, when it has 
cooled to from 85° to 90° C. (185° to 194° 
*■)» are added 100 to 125 parts of boiling 
wat er . After cooling again, 500 parts 
ot water are added, and the solution is 
Poured into a quart flask, with 94 per 
cent alcohol to make up a quart. After 
^andmg 2 months it is filtered. Twenty 
^yoroUraeter degrees of this solution 
yo*e, with 40 parts of a solution of 0.55 
grams of barium chloride in 1 quart of 
water, a dense lather 1 centimeter high. 



Waterproofing 



(See also Enamels, Glazes, Paints, 
Preservatives, Varnishes.) 

Waterproofing a Waxed Finish. — A 

waxed finish may he effectually protected 
against water or other form of moisture, 
by applying the following coating: Zanzi- 
bar copal varnish, boilerl linseed oil, and 
spirits of turpentine; six parts of each, 
by weight. Mix these together. 

Waterproofing Brick Arches —Water- 
proofing of brick arches is done in the 
following manner: The masonry is first 
smoothed over with cement mortar 
This is then covered with a spec: 
compound on which a layer of Hydi_. 
felt is laid so as to lap at least 12 inche 
on the transverse seams. Five layers o 
compound and 5 of felt are used, 
special attention is paid to seem 
tightness around the drain pipes and 
the spandTel walls. In fact the belt 
carried up the back of the latter am 
turned into the joint under the copm 
about 2 inches, where it is held wit 
cement mortar. The waterproofing - 
the arches is protected with 1 ™* 
cement mortar and that on the wa 
with a single course of brickwork. 

Waterproofing Cement.— A form 
that has been used quite generally £ 
v5n factory resets for waterproo. 
Tnl cement is a solution of lye and aim 
Five pounds of powdered alum and 
lb of lye are dissolved m 10 qt. of wat. 
Use % Pt. of this solution to each but 
Sful of water used in mixing the com. 
^outside ™*XS2&^** 

ency of a heavy wash. 

W^rP-£ Vamf^Wofi 
Trays.— Wooden trays ^ moke 

SSrtag ^S^dporelandwm 
Th lf ftfwo d C a£utel/non- P orou.. 
render tne wu p . . TJse re- 

Waterproofing Blue ijn -.^^sing 
fined P^afflne and^apply T ^ 
the print in the f*™* Me in 

conveniently ■« „* ffi^ted, * number 
melted paraffi ne u ^ 0 S rbent cloth a foot 
of pieces of an aDsor withdrft wn and 
or more ^^JLfw use at any time, 
cooled they are ready 



742 



WATERPROOFING 



■ 



Tn aDPly to a blue print, .spread one of 
tie saturated cloths on a smooth surface 
i w> the dry print on it with a second 
fi£d clot^on top, and iron with a 
I^tAv hot flatiron. The paper 
TmedHtely absorbs paraffine until sat- 
uTaTed becomes translucent and 

gShW 'waterproofed. The lines of the 
nnnt are intensified by the process, and 
tCe is no shrinking or distortion As 
the wax is withdrawn from the cloths 
£!« T can be added by melting small 
pieces directly under the iron. 
P Bv immersing the print in a bath ot 
melted paraffine the process is hastened, 
& ironing is necessary to remove 
*e surplus wax from the surface unless 
Se paper is to be directly exposed to the 
weather and not to be handled J he 
irons can be heated m most offices by 
ff as or over a lamp, and a supply ot 
saturated cloths obviates the necessity 
of the bath. This process, which was 
originally applied to blue prmt^ to be 
carried by the engineer corps in wet 
mines, is equally applicable to any kind 
of paper, and is convenient for water- 
iroofing typewritten or other notices to 
■e posted up and exposed to the weather. 



Waterproof Coatings. — I. — Rosin oil, 
50 parts; rosin, 30 parts; white soap, 
9 parts. Apply hot on the surfaces to be 
protected. 

II. — It has been observed that when 
;luten dried at an ordinary temperature, 
jence capable of absorbing water, is 
mixed with glycerine and heated, it 
becomes water-repelling and suitable for 
a waterproof paint. One part of gluten 
is mixed with \\ parts of glycerine, where- 
by a slimy mass is obtained which is ap- 
plied on fabrics subsequently subjected 
to a heat of 248° F. The heating should 
not last until all glycerine has evaporated, 
otherwise the coating becomes brittle and 
peels off. 

Waterproofing Canvas. — I. — The can- 
vas is coated with a mixture of the three 
solutions named below: 
; 1- Gelatin, 50 parts, by weight, boiled 
ni 3 1,000 parts of water free from lime, 
a. Alum, 100 parts, dissolved in 3,000 
parts of water. 3. Soda soap dissolved 
m 2,000 parts of water. 

H-~-Trepare a zinc soap by entirely 
dissolving 56 parts of soft soap in 125 to 
150 parts of water. To the boiling 
"quid add, with constant stirring, 28 to 
3vS parts of zme vitriol (white vitriol). 
ioe zinc soap floats on top and forms, 
£tter cooling, a hard white mass, which 
1 taken out. In. order to dean it of 



admixed carbonic alkali, it must hp 
melted in boiling fresh water 
place 232.5 parts of raw linseed oil (T 
from mucus) in a kettle with 2.5 part { 
best potash, and 5 parts of water. TV 
mass is boiled until it has become wh> 




and brown rosin, 10.5 parts. The whdP 
is boiled together about 1 hour, th 
temperature not being allowed to exceed 
212° F., and stirring well from tim e to 
time. After this add 15 parts of zinc soar, 
and stir the whole until the metal soal 
has combined with the oil, the tempera 
ture not exceeding 212° F. When the 
mixture is complete, add a solution of 
caoutchouc, 1.2 parts, and oil of turpen- 
tine, 8.56 parts, which must be well in- 
corporated by stirring. The material is 
first coated on one side by means of a 
brush with this composition, which must 
have a temperature of 158° F. There- 
upon hang it up to dry, then apply a 
second layer of composition possessing 
the same temperature, which is likewise 
allowed to dry. The fiber is now filled, 
out, so that the canvas is waterproof, 

Waterproofing Corkg. — For the pur- 
pose of making corks as impervious as 
possible, while at the same time keeping 
them elastic, saturate them with caout- 
chouc solution. Dissolve caoutchouc in 
benzine in the ratio of 1 part of caout- 
chouc to 19 parts of benzine. Into this 
liquid lay the corks to be impregnated 
and subject them to a pressure of 150 to 
180 pounds by means of a force pump, so 
that the liquid can thoroughly enter. 
The corks thus treated must next be ex- 
posed to a strong draught of air until all 
trace of benzine has entirely evaporatea 
and no more smell is noticeable. 

WATERPROOFING FABRICS, 

It will be convenient to divide water- 
proof fabrics into two classes, viz., w 
which are impervious to water, ana ^ 
which are water-repellent. _ It ' , 
portant to make this distinction, 
although all waterproof material is u 
for the purpose of resisting water, ^ 
is a vast difference between tw 
classes. The physical difference ^ 
tween them can be briefly sumrne u 
follows: Fabrics which are cOIup sk]nS , 
impervious to water comprise o . 
mackintoshes, and all materials 
a water-resisting film on one or bo ^ ose 
or in the interior of the fabric- 0 f 
scond h e « d '"L 



under the second fl """' 0 #e3@ 
water-repellent materials do no v 



coming 



WATERPROOFING 



748 



selves- -j members of the first 

The P rl S P r abbcr- P roofed goods; in 
group f J^nt employed is rubber m 
iese qSti&. together with 

greater or es| <i . properties Be- 

' er b ?^ine on thil class, it will be 
oeCe TJZictl and physical properties of 



fore 

the chemical 

rU D b thPr or caoutchouc, is a natural 
Rubber,, or & j e num ber of 

Th &^toch^hes v o, 



^r hi Theraw^tenal^p^ 
nety- f haoe of blocks, cal 
^ shaped mas^s, according to the 
bottle-sliapea been colle c te d. 

manner in w ^ rk _ brown — sometimes 

ft STu!3^riS the interior .of 
nearly DiacK , g^ade, and varies 

? C TdineY broin Z a dirty white, the 
from a dingy different brands 

soulS fn'he raw state its prop- 
and sources. f pom hat thcy 



chemical combination with sulphur, after 
which its elasticity is much increased; it 
will then bear far greater gradations of 
heat and cold. This chemical treatment 
of caoutchouc with sulphur is known as 
"vulcanizing," and, if properly carried 
out, will yield either soft vulcanized rub- 
ber or the hard variety known as vulcan- 
ite. On the other hand, caoutchouc, 
after vulcanizing, has lost its plastic 
nature, and can no longer be molded into 
various shapes, so that in the production 
of stamped or molded objects, the cus- 
tomary method is to form them in un- 
vulcanized rubber and then to vulcaniae 
them. 

Raw caoutchouc contains a number of 
natural impurities, such as sand, twigs, 
soil, etc.; these require removing before 
the manufacturing processes _ can be 
carried out. The first operation, after 
rough washing, is to shred the raw 
material into small strips, so as to en- 
able the impurities to be washed out. 
This process is carried out by pressing 
the rubber against the surface of a re- 
volving drum (A, Fig. 1), carrying 



erties are 
are 



'after going through the yarious man- 
ufacturine processes, and it ftas oniy 
a f ew of g the characteristics which are 
generally associated with India rubber 
themieallv it is a complex hydrocarbon 
with the formula C, 6 H se , and appears to 
consist of a highly porous network ot 
cells having several different rosms in 
their interstices. It is perfectly soluble 
in no single solvent, but will yield some 
of its constituents to many dlt J^™ 
solvents. At a temperature of 10 M> 
(50° F.) raw caoutchouc is a solid body 
and possesses very little elasticity. At 
36° C. (97° F.) it is soft and elastic to a 
high degree, and is capable of being 
stretched 16 times its length. Further 
increase of temperature lessens its elas- 
tic properties, and at 120° C. (248° f.) 
it melts. While in the raw condition 
it has several peculiar properties, one of 
which is: After stretching, and cooling 
suddenly while stretched, it retains its 
new form, and only regains its former 
shape on being warmed. Another strik- 
mg feature is its strong adhesive capacity; 
this property is so powerful that the 
rubber cannot be cut with a knife unless 
tae blade is wet; and freshly cut portions, 
11 Pressed together, will adhere and form 
a homog eileoils mass. From these facts 
« will be seen how it differs from rubber 
i u ™z shape of a cycle tire or other manu- 
factured form. 

The most valuable property possessed 
°y raw caoutchouc is that of entering into 




Fig. 1 



nu mber of diagonally arrayed knives 
B, on its surface. A lever, ■ V'r/ ig t r 
the rubber against the knives V 
fulcrum on which C wor £ s ;, * f ° 
fUl ;ig ht which throws back the lever. 



wei 



the pressure being 




Fig. 2. 



WATERPROOFING 

- *. „f wn tpr is kent play- certain amount of rubber, but 
this operation a jet of water as icepi pj^v 
the knives to cool and enable 



^^To^ekJves to cool 
n^Sg.this comes the passage 



CTJ»t the same 
§me Immediately over the rol ers a 
water pipe s fixed, so that a steaay 
£0/ water washes out all the sand 
and other extraneous matter In Fig^ ft 
AA are the steel rollers, while B is a 
fcrew working springs which regiilate 
the pressure between the rollers. I he 
power is transmitted from below from 
the pulley, C, and thence to the gearing. 

The next operation, after well drying, 
is to thoroughly masticate the shredded 
rubber between hot steel rollers, which 
resemble those already described but 
usually have a screw-thread cut on their 
surfaces. Fig. 3 shows the front view 




Fig. 3, 

of this masticating machine, A being the 
rollers, while the steam pipe for heating 
is shown at B. Fig. 3a gives a top view 




Fig. 3A, 

of the same machine, showing the two 
rollers. 

_ After passing several times through 
these, the rubber -will be in the form of 
Homogeneous strips, and is then ready 
either for molding or dissolving. As 
we are dealing solely with waterproofed 
textiles, the next process which concerns 
e dl I ssolyiIi g of the rubber in a 
2 V G solvent. Benzol, carbon bi- 
sulphide, oil of turpentine, ether, and 
absolve alcohol, ^ eac £ disSQ ' lv * ° 



them used alone gives a thorough sol 
tion. The agent commonly empl ' U ; 
is carbon bisulphide, together with in 
per cent of absolute alcohol. Whatev 



solvent is used, after being steeped i u l 
for some hours the caoutchouc swells out 
enormously, and then requires the addi 
tion of some other solvent to effect 3, 
complete solution. A general method is 
to place the finely shredded rubber in a 
closed vessel, to cover it with carbon 
bisulphide, and allow to stand for some 
hours. _ Toward the end of the time the 
vessel is warmed by means of a steam 
coil or jacket, and 10 parts absolute 
alcohol are added for every 100 parts of 
carbon bisulphide. The whole is then 
kept gently stirred for a few hours. Fig, 
4 shows a common type of the vessel 




used for dissolving rubber. In this 
diagram A is the interior of the vessel, 
and B a revolving mixer in the same. 
The whole vessel is surrounded cy <* 
steam jacket, C, with a steam inlet at" 
and a tap for condensed water at * 
F is the cock by which the solution is 
drawn off. , , , 10 

After the rubber is dissolved, abju* 
to 24 per cent of sulphur is adt e _ a ' so]u . 
thoroughly incorporated with tne 
tion. The sulphur may be m W > * 
of chloride of sulphur, or as s" J P Jll J * 0 f 
and simple. A very smal qua nt W y 
sulphur is required to give the ro ^ 
result, 2 to 3 per cent being f ul " uan tity 
effect vulcanization; but a large q I ^ on . 
is always added to hasten the opt ^ 
Even after prolonged treatme." fIfl 
the two solvents, a solution 01 , ts 0 f » 



consistency is never obtained: fl oa tiug 
thicker nature will be found t ; 0 iJ 
in the solution, and the next °p 
is to knead it up so as to obta«» 



WATERPROO 



i.n«t Fig- 5 will give an 




spreading the rubber on the cloth. A 
is the tank containing the solution with 
an outlet at the bottom arranged so as 
to regulate the flow of solution. The 
fabric passes slowly underneath this, re- 
ceiving as it travels a thin coating of the 
waterproofing. The two rollers at jB press 
the solution into the fabric and distrib- 
ute the proofing evenly over the entire 
surface. 

After leaving the two squeezing rollers, 
the cloth travels slowly through a covered 
chamber, 0, having a series of steam 
pipes, EE, underneath, to evaporate the 
solvent; this condenses on the upper por- 
tion of the chamber, which is kept cooled, 
and flows down the sides into suitable 
receptacles. After this the proofed cloth 
is vulcanized by passing round metal 
cylinders heated to the necessary temper- 
ature, or by passing through a heated 
I chamber, Fig. 7 shows the spreading of 



Fig. 5. 



At the top of a closed wooden chamber 
U fcovereS reservoir, A, containing the 
is a covere A loilg s lit at the 

bt^Tthls^voir allowsVe solution 
to fall between sets of metal rollers, BBS 
below Neighboring, rollers are revolv- 
ing in opposite directions, and at difler 
ent speel so that, after passing 
three sets of rollers, and emerging at 
the bottom, the solution should be of uni- 
form consistency. CCC are the g^dmg 
funnels, and EE are scrapers to clear the 
solution from the rollers. D is a wedge- 
shaped plug worked by a rack and pinion, 
and regulates the flow of the solution. 

It now remains to apply the rubber to 
the fabric and vulcanize it. Up to tnis 
stage the sulphur has only been mechan- 
ically mixed with the rubber; the aid ot 
heat is now required to bring about 
chemical combination between the two. 
This process, which is known as burn- 
ing," consists in subjecting the rubber- 
covered fabric to a temperature of about 
248° p. Sulphur itself melts at 239 * 





Fig. 6. 

and the temperature at which combina- 
tion takes place must be above this. 
* 1 g- 6 shows one of the methods of 



Fig. 7. 

i.i, K.+wen two fabrics. The two 
rubber between xwu ^ rollers, 

doths are wound^ e ye Ijon^ 
BB; from this thej are m of 

through the rollers, V, « between 
proofing solution flowing ^ 
{he « l!erS \^ C yh the?ubber inside 

iC tTr\ opera & of prooflnghas 

been described ^^/the rubber 
otl ly was used in P tfl f tb e 

forms only a smal P. be * ng taken 
proofing rnaterial. its P« ^ mon 
tw cheaper bodies, w boiled 
irfgredfents of proofi ^JSSl quantity 

of litharge ; ttns fl a exible film- „ Coal tar, 
f«rms a glassy nexiui* ^ d> t 0 _ 



WATERPROOFING 



1 



Jiff^rent waterproof compositions. Oil 
n turpentine an d benzol form good solvents 
? rubber but it is absolutely essential 
Sit boVh rubber and solvent be perfectly 
*nhVdrou S before mixing. Oil of turpen- 
tine alcohol, etc., can be best deprived 
If water by mixing with either sulphuric 
fcid or dehydrated copper sulphate, and 
allowing to stand. The acid or the 
copper salt will absorb the water and 
Sk to the bottom, leaving a supernatant 
Ever of dehydrated turpentine or what- 
ever solvent is used. All the sulphur m 
a rubber-proofed cloth is not in com- 
bination with the rubber; t is frequently 
found that, after a lapse of time, rubber- 
nroofed material shows an efflorescence 
of sulphur on the surface, due to excess 
of sulphur, and occasionally the fabric 
becomes stiff and the proofing scales oft. 
Whenever a large proportion of sulphur 
is present, there is always the danger of 
the rubbers forming slowly into the hard 
vulcanite state, as the substance com- 
monly called vulcanite consists only ot 
ordinary vulcanized rubber carried a 
stage further by more sulphur being 
used and extra heat applied. If after 
vulcanizing, rubber is treated with caus- 
tic soda, all this superfluous sulphur can 
be extracted; if it is then well washed 
the rubber will retain its elasticity for a 
long period. With the old methods of 
proofing, a sheet of vulcanized rubber 
was cemented to a fabric with rubber 
varnish, and frequently this desulphuriz- 
ing was performed before cementing to- 
gether. The result was a flexible and 
durable cloth, but of great weight and 
thickness, and expensive to produce. 

The chemistry of rubber is very little 
understood; as mentioned previously, 
rubber is a highly complex body, liable 
to go through many changes. These 
changes are likely to be greater in rub- 
ber varnish, consisting of half a dozen or 
more ingredients, than in the case of 
rubber alone. The action of sunlight 
has a powerful effect on rubber, much 
to its detriment, and appears to increase 
lts tendency to oxidize. Vulcanized 
rubber keeps its properties better under 
water than when exposed to the air, and 
changes more slowly if kept away from 
tne light. _ It appears as though a slight 
decomposition always takes place even 
with pure rubber; but the presence of so 
many differently constituted substances 
^. S '/ me A ,mes 1 occlir in rubber solutions 
iVr 1 m ^ kes thin « s worse - When- 
tlll£ number 5> f different bodies with 
BeK S k Pr u PertieS - are consolidated to- 
ctml Jl- heat '- as - ln the cas e of rubber 
compositions, it « only reasonable to 



expect there will be some moleeul ar rft 
arrangement going on in the mass- an* 
this can be assigned as the reason w v. 
some proofings last as long acrain 
others. Some metallic salts have a ver S 
injurious action on rubber, one of +h 
worst being copper sulphate. Dyers ar 
frequently warned that goods for rubbed 
proofing must be free from this metal" 
as its action on rubber is very powerful' 
though but little understood. As is 
generally known, grease in any form is 
exceedingly destructive to rubber, and it 
should never be allowed in contact in 
the smallest proportion. Some composi- 
tions are made up by dissolving rubber 
in turpentine and coal tar; but in this 
case some of the rubber's most valuable 
properties are destroyed, and it is doubt- 
ful if it can be properly vulcanized. 
Owing to rubber being a bad conductor 
of heat, it requires considerable care to 
vulcanize it in any thickness. A high 
degree of heat applied during a short 
period would tend to form a layer of 
hard vulcanite on the surface, while that 
immediately below would be softer and 
would gradually merge into raw rubber 
in the center. 

The different brands of rubber vary 
so much, especially with regard to solu- 
bility, that it is always advisable to treat 
each brand by itself, and not to make a 
solution of two or more kinds. Oilskins 
and tarpaulins, etc., are mostly proofed 
by boiled linseed oil, with or without 
thickening bodies added. They are 
not of sufficient interest to enlarge upon 
in this article, so the second, or "water- 
repellent," class has now to be dealt with. 

All the shower-proof fabrics come 
under this heading, as well as every clotn 
which is pervious to air and repulsive to 
water. The most time-honored recipe 
for proofing woollen goods is a ^ tu ^ 
of sugar of lead and alum, and dates 
back hundreds of years. The system <* 
using this is as follows: two ^ing«^ 

tal 

el 

iposition results, uie^uop* ~- --^ oui 



using LLiia u,a lunui"' - j >i 

dients are dissolved separately, anc i 
solutions mixed together. A muBWJ 
composition results, the base ot tnt 
salt uniting with the sulphuric a cl " h 
of the alum to form lead sulphate, *^ &f 
precipitates to the bottom- il f m of 
solution contains alumina in , QO fing 
acetate, and this supplies the P fl 
quality to the fabric. It is iapP£ e ^ ic | 
form of machine shown in rig- °> co0 - 
will be seen to consist of a troug^ ft 
tabling the proofing solution, to p. 
pair of squeezing rollers, A, over ^ 
The fabric is drawn down tnroj 
solution and up through the sq _ ^ 
in the direction of the arrows. 



WATERPROOFING 



747 



* a * machine the cloth automatic- 
^ ck ° f KeTf onto a roll, B, and then 
drying to develop the water- 




Pig. 8. 

T , ; D is a weight acting on 

a lever which presses the two rollers, A, 
together. The water-repelling property 

is gained as follows: 

Drying the fabric, which is impreg- 
nated with acetate of alumina, drives off 
some of the volatile acetic acid, leaving a 
film of basic acetate of alumina on each 
wool fiber. This basic salt is very diffi- 
cult to wet, and has so little attraction 
for moisture that in a shower of rain the 
drops remain in a spheroidal state, and 
fall off. Iu a strong wind, or under pres- 
sure, water eventually penetrates through 
fabrics proofed in this manner; but they 
will effectually resist a shaip shower. 
Unfortunately, shower-proofed goods, 
with wear, gradually lose this property 
«f repelling water. The equation repre- 
senting the change between alum and 
sugar of lead is given below. In the case 
of common alum there would, of course, 
be potassium acetate in solution besides 
the alumina. 

Alum. Sugar of lead. 
AUK a (SoO, + 4Pb(C a IL 0*) ? 
-Lead Potassium Aluminum 
sulphate. acetate. acetate. 
: = 4PbSo< + aKC,H 3 O a + Al 2 (C a II 3 O0« 

Now that sulphate of alumina is in 
^mmon use, alum need not be used, as 

Proofin taS k * U ^ serves no P ur P ose * a 
Th ^' 

ferrhi ma . I1 y compositions con- 

tiles Water: resisting powers upon tex- 

fect , the t ~ Unf ° r ' t " nat " y the? either af " 



range of waterproof compositions can be 
got by using stearates of the metals; 
these, m nearly every case, are insoluble 
bodies, and when deposited in the in- 
t 4 e i"°. r of a fabric form a water-resisting 
falling which is very effective. As a 
rule these stearates are deposited on the 
material by means of double baths; for 
example, by passing the fabric through 
(say) a bath of aluminum acetate, and 
then, after squeezing out the excess of 
liquid, passing it through a bath of soap. 
The aluminum salt on the fabric de- 
composes the soap, resulting in a deposit 
of insoluble stearate of alumina. This 
system of proofing in two baths is clean- 
er and more economical than adding all 
the ingredients together, as the stearate 
formed is just where it is required "on 
the fibers," and not at the bottom of the 
bath. 

One of the most important patents 
now worked for waterproofing purposes 
is on the lines of the old alumina process. 
In this case the factor used is rosin, 
dissolved in a very large bulk of petro- 
leum spirit. The fabrics to be proofed 
(usually dress materials) are passed 
through a bath of this solution, and 
carefully dried to drive off the solvent. 
Following this, the goods are treated by 
pressing with hot polished metal rollers. 
This last process melts the small quan- 
titv of rosin, which is deposed on the 
cloth, and leaves each single fiber witii 
an exceedingly thin film of rosm on it. 
It wS be understood that only a very 
attenuated solution of rosin is per- 
missible, so that the fibers of the tnreaas 
Sid not .he threads themselves are coated 
wfch ^ If the solution contains too 
££h rosin the fabric £ £fl ^ and the 

any description. 



ami ™ , general handle of the material 
color u 6 .^ ^ tiff ' or the ^ stain and d[s " 



it, which 



lually bad. A Urge 




Fio. 9. 



748 



WATERPROOFING 



This is done by means of a roller, A, 
running in the proofing solution, the 
Serifl to be coated traveling slowly 
over the top and just in contact with the 
roller A, which transfers the proofing 
to it Should the solution used be of a 
thick nature, then a smooth metal, roller 
will transfer sufficient to the fabric- It 
The reverse is the case, and the hquid 
used is very thin, then the roller is 
covered with felt, which very materially 
adds to its carrying power. As shown in 
9, after leaving the two squeezing 
rollers BB, the fabric passes slowly 
round a large steam-heated cylinder^ L 
with the coated side uppermost. Ibis 
dries the proofing and fastens it, and the 
cloth is taken off at D. 

Besides stearates of the metals, glues 
and gelatins have been used for pr Dol- 
ing purposes, but owing to their stiffen- 
ing effect, they are only of use in some 
few isolated cases. With glue and 
gelatin the fixing agent is either tannic 
acid or some metallic salt. _ Tannic 
acid converts gelatin into an insoluble 
leather-like body; this can be deposited 
in the interstices of the fabric by passing 
the latter through a gelatin bath first, 
and then squeezing and passing through 
the tannic acid. Bichromate of potash 
also possesses the property of fixing the 
proteid bodies and rendering them in- 
soluble. 

The following are special processes 
used to advantage in the manufacture of 
waterproof fabrics: 

% — Ordinary Fabrics, Dressing Ap- 
parel, etc. — Immerse in a vat of acetate 
of alumina (5° Be.) for 12 hours, lift, dry, 
and let evaporate at a temperature of 
from 140° to 149° F. 

II. — Sailcloth, Awnings, Thick Blank- 
ets, etc. — Soak in a 7 per cent solution of 
gelatin at 104° F., dry, pass through a 
4. per. cent solution of alum, dry again, 
rinse in water, and dry. 

III. — Fabrics of Cotton, Linen, Jute, 
and Hemp. — Put into a bath of am- 
moniacal cupric sulphate of 10° Be. at a 
temperature of 87° F. ; let steep thorough- 
ly, then put in a bath of caustic soda 
(20° Be.) and dry. To increase the im- 
permeability, a bath of sulphate of al- 
umina may be substituted for the caustic- 
soda bath. 

IV —Saturate the fabrics with the fol- 
lowing odorless compound, subjecting 
them several times to a brushing machine 
Laving several rollers, where the warp 
threads will be well smoothed, and a 
waterproof product of fine sheen and 
scarcely fading will be the result. Tb e 



compound is made with 30 parts, by 
weight, of Japan wax, 22^ parts, by 
weight, of paraffine, 12 parts, by weight, 
of rosin soap, 35 parts, by weight, of 
starch, and 5 parts, by weight, of a 5 

per 

cent solution of alum. I abrics thus pre- 
pared are particularly adapted to the 
manufacture of haversacks, shoes, etc. 

V. — White or Light Fabrics. — P aas 
first through a bath of acetate of alumina 
of 4° to 5° Be. at a temperature of 104° F., 
then through the rollers to. rid of all 
liquid; put into a warm solution of soap 
(5 parts, by weight, of olive-oil soap to 
100 parts, by weight, of fresh water) and 
finally pass through a 2 per cent solution 
of alum, dry for 2 or 3 days on the drop- 
ping horse, and brush off all particles of 
soap. 

VI. — Dissolve 1\ parts, by weight, of 
gelatin in 50 parts, by weight, of boil- 
ing water, add 1£ parts, by weight, of 
scraped tallow soap and %\ parts, by 
weight, of alum, the latter being put in 

gradually; lower the temperature of the 
ath to 122° F., lift out the fabric, dry, 
and calender. 

VII. — Tent Cloth. — Soak in a warm 
solution of 1 part, by weight, of gelatin, 
1 part, by weight, of glycerine, and 1 
part, by weight, of tannin in 12 parts, 
by weight, of wood vinegar (pyrohgne- 
ous acid) of 12° Be. The whole is 
melted in a kettle and carefully mixed. 
The mass is poured into the receiver of 
the brushing machine, care being taken 
to keep it liquid. For a piece of 500 
feet in length and 20 inches in width, 
50 to SO parts, by weight, of this com-| 
pound are needed. 

VIIL— To freshen worn waterproof 
material, cover with the following: Iifty- 
five thousand parts, by weight, of gelatin; 
100 parts, by weight, of bichromate « 
potash; 100 parts, by weight, of acetic 
acid (to keep glue from congealing), ana 
from 3,000 to 5,000 parts, by weight, oi 
water; to this add 500 parts, by weigi". 
of peroxide of am moniacal copper, iwm 
Be. This compound is put on the tabrij 
with a brush and then exposed to air a 
light. x 

IX.— Soft Hats.— The hats are sUffenea 
as usual, then put through the *° ll0 ?rf 
three baths: Dissolve i part, by 
of tallow soap in from 40 to 5°JP ! * rtS p u t 
weight, of warm water (140° [ ■)■ . e 
3 to 4 dozen hats into this solution, , « 
them in it for half an hour, then ta *\. beI 
and put them as they are mto an 
bath prepared with 40 to 50 part* j 
weight, of water and £ part, by s a^er 
alum and heated to 86° to 104 ^ 



WATERPROOFING 



, „ left in the second bath for 
having been i Qut as bcforej put 

i °\l 839 bath of 40 to 50 parts by 
>nt? 6 Tater, * part, by weight of 
Sffcight. of J - ig rts> b ht> of 

alum, » nCl r" this cofd bath the hats are 
fish gb ,e - * hour or more until they 

left for another 4 with tl?e liquid, 

Sea d?W and the other operations con- 



ti Ti Woolen cloth may be soaked in 
*\ fi i P d with aluminum acetate, Qf 
for 12 hours, then removed dried 
dried again at a temperature of 

140° F. . j 

vt —Wagon covers awnings, and 
k are saturated with a 7 per cent 
fiti 8 o Son, at a temperature of 
f St F dried in the air, put through a 4 
ner cent solution of alum, dried again in 
E air carried through water, and dried 
a third time. 

XII— Cotton, linen, jute, and hemp 
fabrics are first thoroughly saturated m 
a ba th of ainmonio-eupric sulphate of 
10° Be., at a temperature of (1 then 
Dirt into a solution of caustic soda, Z 
Be and dried. They may be made still 
more impervious to water by substituting 
a solution of aluminum sulphate for the 
caustic soda. 

XIII— White and light-colored fabrics 
are first put into a bath of aluminum 
acetate, 4° to 5° Be., at a temperature of 
102° F„ the superfluous liquid being re- 
moved from the fabric by press rollers. 
The fabric is put into a soap solution 
(5 parts of good Marseilles soap in 100 
parts of soft water). Finally it is put 
through a 2 per cent alum solution, and 
left to dry for 2 or 3 days on racks. The 
adhering particles of soap are removed 
by brushing with machinery. 

XIV. — Dissolve 1.5 parts of gelatin in 
60 parts of boiling water, add 1.5 parts 
w shavings of tallow grain soap, and 
gradually, 2.5 parts of alum. Let this 
cool to 122° F., draw the fabric through 
«» dry and calender. 

— Cellular tissues are made water- 
proof by impregnating them with a warm 
solution of 1 part, by weight, of gelatin, 
jht, of glycerine, and 1 part, 
i --s"»ivji tannin, in 12 parts, by weight, 
oi wood vinegar, 12° B' 



— ~ u< a. Usui, oy ,. 
* Part, by weight, of glycerine, and 1 part, 
D yweight, of tannin, in 12 parts, by weight, 
ot wood vinegar, 12° Be. 

0t ?^'7~Idnen, hemp, jute, cotton, and 
Ipr a °ries c an be given a good odor- 
taem Wate J pro ° f finish h V impregnating 
the t- a ^ tcrwar ds subjecting them to 
Ioll actlon _ of several mechanical brush 
Ittjfj ?y this process the fabric is 



the threads of the warp brought out, and 
a glossy, odorless, unfading waterproof 
stuif results. Fabrics manufactured in 
the usual way from rough and colored 
yarns are put through a bath of this 
waterproof finish, whose composition is 
as follows: Thirty parts, by weight, of 
Japanese wax; 22.5 parts, by weight, of 
paraffinc; 15 parts, by weight, of rosin 
soap; 35 parts, by weight, of starch, and 5 
parts, by weight, of a 5 per cent alum solu- 
tion. The first three components are 
melted in a kettle, the starch and, lastly, 
the alum added, and the whole slirred 
vigorously. 

XVII. — One hundred parts, by weight, 
of castor oil are heated to nearly 204° F., 
with 50 parts, by weight, of caustic 
potash, of 50° Be., to which 50 parts, by 
weight, of water have previously been 
added. Forty parts, by weight, of 
cooler water are then added slowly, care 
being taken to keep the temperature of 
the mixture constant. As soon as the 
liquor begins to rise, 40 parts, by weight, 
of cooler water are again added, with the 
same precaution to keep the temperature 
from falling below 204° F. At the same 
time care must be taken to prevent the 
liquor boiling, as this would produce too 
great saponification. By the prolonged 
action of heat below the boiling point, 
the oil absorbs water and caustic potash 
without being changed, and the whole 
finally forms a perfectly limpid, nearly 
black liquid. This is diluted with 5 
times its weight of hot or cold watered 
is then ready for use without any further 
preparation 7 Other vegetable ods may 
Ee employed besides castor oil, and the 
quantify of ununified oi present maj 

liquid with a fresh quam y . ht _ 

i^^oll^ -tiniured 
as the oiling may ^ doge in the j o 
The solution is clear ^ Jmjid' 
not separate ^^^fifspfnning gives 
sl on. This P^^i^lion of the r^ 
10 per cent belter uti ^ 

material owing ^i^ch the fibers are 
and regularity with winch the ^ 

?ti weaving less oninfe re _ 

cole 



e d dry, the fibers 



are 



ooth, 



proof by rub „^' n f 'til th™ urface preset 
tump of ^«SJ£ U „ rnybh »PP»"°"J 



WATERPROOFING 



practically waterproof, although still leav- 
ing it porous to air. 

W— Coating the under side of the 
doth with a solution of isinglass and 
SK? applying an infusion of .galls is 
fnother P meth?d ( a compound being thus 
formed which is a variety of leather. 

XX.-An easy method h * the formation 
at aluminum stearate in the fiber ot tne 
ItK which may readily be done by im- 
SeSng it in a solution of aluminum 
Sate in water (1 in 10) and without 
affowing it to dry passing through a solu- 
aiiowins „„5f frnm aoda and tallow 



Of aluminum stearate in the fiber of the 
Ha 

L S 
ill 

dr 

tion of soap made*" fronTsoda and tallow 
or similar fat, in hot water Reaction 
between the aluminum sulphate and the 
soao produces aluminum stearate and 
sodFum sulphate. The former is insoluble 
and remains in the fiber; the latter i. re- 
moved by subsequently rinsing the fabric 
in water. 

XXI A favorite method for cloth is 

as follows: Dissolve in a receptacle, 
preferably of copper, oyer a bright coal 
fire, 1 liter (1.76 pints) of pure lmseed oil, 
liter (1.76 pints) of petroleum, } liter 
,„.88 pints) of oil turpentine, and 12 c 
erams (4.37 ounces) of yellow wax, the 



1 liter (1-76 pints; oi petrwuum, - 
(0.88 pints) of oil turpentine, and 125 
grams (4.37 ounces) of yellow wax, the 
fast named in small bits. As there is 
danger of fire, boiling of this mass should 
be avoided. With this hot solution re- 
moved from the fire, of course the felt 
material is impregnated; next it is hung 
up in a warm, dry room or spread out, 
but in such a manner that the uniform 
temperature can act upon all parts. 

"Waterproofing Leather. — I. — Ten- 
mag's process is as follows: Melt together 
equal parts of zinc and linseed oil, at a 
temperature not above 225° F. Put the 
leather in the molten mixture and let it 
remain until saturated. The "zinc soap" 
is made by dissolving 6 parts of white 
soap in 16 parts of water, and stirring 
into the solution 6 parts of zinc sulphate. 
To make sure of a homogeneous mixture 
remelt the whole and stir until it begins 
to cool. The process, including the satu- 
ration of the leather, requires about 48 
hours. Instead of zinc sulphate, copper 
or iron sulphate may be used. The phi- 
losophy of the process is that the mois- 
ture and air contained in the pores of the 
leather arc driven out by the heat of the 
soap mixture, and their place is taken, on 
cooling, by the mixture. The surface of 
the leather is scraped after cooling, and 
the article is dried, either by heating over 
an open fire or by hanging in a drying 
room, strongly heated. 

II; — Prideaux* process consists in sub- 
mitting the leather to treatment with a 



solution of caoutchouc until it is tho r . 
oughly saturated with the liquid. The 
latter consists of 30 parts of caoutchouc 
in 500 parts of oil of turpentine. Com- 
plete impregnation of the leather re- 
quires several days, during which the 
solution must be frequently applied to 
the surface of the leather and rubbed in. 

HI. — Villon's process consists in ap- 
plying a soap solution to the leather, 
about as fallows: The leather is first 
treated to a solution of 62 parts of soap, 
lg4 parts of glue, and 2,000 parts of 
water. "When it has become saturated 
with the solution, it is treated to rubbing 
with a mixture of 460 parts of common 
salt and 400 parts of alum, in sufficient 
water to dissolve the same. Alter this it 
is washed with tepid water and dried. 
This process is much the quickest. The 
application of the soap requires about 
2 hours, and the subsequent treat- 
ment about as much more, or 4 or 5 hour 
in all. 

Oilskins. — The art of painting ov 
textile fabrics with oily preparations to 
make them waterproof is probably near! 
as old as textile manufacture itself, a 
industry of prehistoric, nay, geologic, 
origin. It is certainly more ancient than 
the craft of the artistic painter in oils, whose 
canvases are nothing more nor less tba 
art oilskins, and when out of their frames, 
have served the usual purpose of thos 
things in protecting goods or the huma 
body before now. The art of water 
proofing has been extended beyond th 
domain of the oilskin by chemic- 
processes, especially those m which alum 
or lead salts, or tannin, are used, as well 
as by the discovery of India rubber ana 
gutta percha. These two have revolu- 
tionized the waterproofing industry m 
quite a special manner, and the o u3 *l 
manufacture, although it still exists ana 
is in a fairlv flourishing condition, nas 
found its products to a very largo exter 
replaced by rubber goods. The natural 
result has been that the processes usea ■ 
the former industry have remained _n 
unchanged for a good many years- i J 
had already been brought to a very v*m 
fect state when the rubber- water P 1 '^ * 
business sprang up, so that im 
ments were even then difficult to my f ( 
in oilskin making, and the <* ec * 
upon the trade by India * ft J 



made it difficult to better. Hen? 
three cardinal defects of the °! ls /y, ;t V of 
weieht. its stiffness, and the liat>"' * 



WATERPROOFING 



751 



x orick together when it is 
its folds to W . n the 0 ^ er extreme to 

vraPP e i iU remains. 
c ra( *' j s inevitable- 



Soak 



The weight, of 
era. ... , «.,... An oilskin must 

course, » ^ e rat ively, from the very 
be heavj, con P foy whlch lt is 

essence ot i * ems n o reason why it 
"^li not in time be made much more 
s houW " oc ol d_ t ime oilskin coat could 
P liab Jnd up on end when empty) and 
often stEin l e U g aIlg er of cracking or being 
freefr Xd into " S oHd block when it has 
compacted in ™ , she lL 

beenS u°nv th^ T best oilskins ever made 
Fr0 v, babb D coared by combining Br. 
are l h ° ,e's P process (patented in 1864) 
feft C o & method, which con- 
main of painting over the 
sists in " of bol i e( j 

f- abrl rf allow ng each coat to dry 
tT'p the next is applied. This, with a 
e f 1 Sons in i. the whde 

Shod of making oilskins. ^Pr, fate*. 
K waterproofing method is to im- 
pregnate the fabric with a mixture of 
fard paraffine and boiled oil m propor- 
tions Varying according to circum- 
stances from 95 per cent of paraffine and 
5 of oil to 70 per cent of the former and 
30 of the latter. The most usual per- 
centages are 80 and 20. The mixture is 
made with the aid of heat, and is then 
cast into blocks for storage. It is ap- 
plied to the cloth stretched on a hot plate 
by rubbing the fabric thoroughly all 
over with a block of the composition, 
■which may be applied on one or both 
.. sides as may be wished. The saturation 
is then made complete, and excess of 
composition is removed by passing the 
cloth between hot rollers". When the 
cloth is quite cold the process is com- 
i plete._ The paraffine and the drying oil 
combine their waterproofing powers, and 
I tie paraffine prevents the oil from ex- 
\ ernT1 g any injurious action upon the 
■ material. Drying oil, partly on account 
°i the metallic compounds in it, and 
I partly on account of its absorbing oxygen 
, lr om the atmosphere, has a decided slow 
t ^akening effect upon textile fibers. 
*, £»r. btenhouse points out that the m- 
j^mmabiUty of oilskins may be much 
, fj se !i ed by tlie use of the ordinary fire- 
proohng salts, such as tungstate of soda, 
I al n m ' eit her before or after the water- 
TiT 8 ( V™<*&s is carried out. 
r?^ foll °wing are some of the best 
sEa? mended recipes for making oil- 



. P-'— Take fine twilled calico, 
it m bullock's blood and dry it. Then 
give it 2 or 3 coats of boiled oil, mixed 
with a little litharge, or with an ounce of 
gold size to every pint of the oil. 

Ill-— Make ordinary paint ready to 
be applied thin with a strong solution of 
soap. 

IV. — Make 96 pounds of ocher to a 
thin paste with boded oil, and then add 
16 pounds of ordinary black paint mixed 
ready for use. Apply the first coat of 
this with soap, the subsequent coats 
without soap. 

V. — Dissolve rosin in hot boiled oil 
till it begins to thicken. 

VI. — Mix chalk or pipe clay in the 
finest powder, and in the purest state 
obtainable to a thin paste with boiled oil. 

VII. — Melt together boiled oil, 1 pint; 
beeswax and rosin, each, S ounces. 

VIII. — Dissolve soft soap in hot water 
and add solution of protosulphate of 
iron till no further precipitate is produced. 
Filter off, wash, and dry, and form the 
mass into a thin paste with boiled oil. 

All these compositions are painted on 
with an ordinary painter's brush. The 
fabric should be slightly stretched, both 
to avoid folds and to facilitate the pene- 
tration of the waterproofing mixture, lo 
aid the penetration still further, the 
mixture snould be applied hot It « of 
the greatest importance that the fabric 
should not be Jamp when the compos - 
lion is applied to it. It is best to have it 
warm as well as the composition If 
more than one coat is applied which is 
ppically always the g case ^ 

the usual ^^f^^erfectly dry before 
last coat should be pertecuy y 
the next is applied. Ncgle ct oi 

^ ess which frequeiny they, have 

damage to the it is advisable 

to be unfolded. In ta ct, « * . 
to --folding an cjMaj ^ P 
b e avoided. ine f, s " practicable, 

when not in ^"v^XwoE.. It P** 
and be allowed plenty -ot i ghould 

without saying that ^?/ 0 ii s Sn, whether 
be made to sell or use the «U** a . coat 
garment or tarpauhi unUl the ^ 
of composition is Perfectly ^ m 

It is unadvisable to use manu . 
the drying at any stage m 

Any conven- 



iens P* ss °lve 1 ounce of yellow soap in 
l'™ ° f boiling water. Then stir in 
i£ , of boiled oil. When cold, add 
* l™tt of gold size. 



facture. A con vc»- 

Waterproofing Pape - . op 



WATERPROOFING 



Wl* the oulp is being formed into P?pe r . 
w bi e tiie puiR « m b trea ted. If 

X ^ate aU S ?X SSed while being 
the ^^V' " then tlie better method 
L° to beM^aSneut when the web 
S mdpy material leaves the Foudnmer 
wir? o? the cylinders, it then being m a 
Ep condition, bnt with the larger pe - 
renH»e of moisture removed. From this 
no nt the treatment of the paper is the 
fame whether it be pulp in a sheet, as 
above stated, or fimsW paper 

The treatment consists, first, in satu- 
rating the paper with glutinous ' matoad, 
preferably animal glue, and by pretcrence 
the bath of glutinous material should be 
hot to effect the more rapid absorption 
and more perfect permeation, impregna- 
tion, and deposit of the glutinous ma- 
terial within all the microscopic inter- 
stices throughout the body of the paper 
being treated. By preference a suitable 
tank is provided in which the glutin- 
ous material is deposited, and in which 
it may be kept heated to a constant 
temperature, the paper being passed 
through the tank and saturated during 
its passage. The material being treated 
should pass in a continuous sheet— that 
is, be fed from a roll and the finished 
product be wound in a roll after final 
treatment. This saves time and the 
patentee finds that the requisite permea- 
tion or incorporation of glutinous mat- 
ter in the fiber will with some papers 
— for instance, lightly sized manila 
hemp — require but a few seconds. As 
the paper passes from the glutin tank 
the surplus of the glutinous matter is 
removed from the surface by mechani- 
cal means, as contradistinguished from 
simply allowing it to pass off by gravity, 
and in most instances it is preferred to 
pass the paper between siutable pres- 
sure rolls to remove such surplus. The 
strength and consistency of the glutinous 
bath may be varied, depending upon the 
material, being treated and the uses for 
which such material is designed. It 
may, however, be stated that, in a ma- 
jority of cases, a hot solution of about 
1 part of animal glue to about 10 parts of 
water, by weight, gives the best results. 
After leaving the bath of glutinous ma- 
terial and having the surplus adhering 
to the surfaces removed, the paper be- 
fore drying is passed into or through 
a solution of formaldehyde and water 
to set" the glutinous material. The 
strength of this solution may also be 
variable, depending, as heretofore stated, 
upon the paper and uses for which it is 
designed. fn the majority of eases, 
However, a solution of 1 part of formalde- 



hyde (35 per cent solution) to 5 parts ot 
water, by weight, gives good results, arid, 
the best result is attained if this bath is 
cold instead of hot, though any particu- 
lar temperature is not essentially neces- 
sary. The effect of tiie formaldehyde 
solution upon the glutin-saturated paper 
is to precipitate the glutinous matter and 
render it insoluble. 

As the material comes from the formal- 
dehyde bath, the surplus adhering to 
the surfaces is removed by mechanical 
means, pressure rolls being probably 
most convenient. The paper is then dried 
in any convenient manner. The best 
result in drying is attained by the air- 
blast, i. e., projecting blasts of air against 
both surfaces of the paper. This drying 
removes all the watery constituents "and 
leaves the paper in a toughened or 
greatly strengthened condition, but not 
in practical condition for commercial 
uses, as it is brittle, horny, and stiff, and 
has an objectionable odor and taste 
on account of the presence of the alde- 
hydes, paraldehydes, formic acid, and 
other products, the result of oxidation. 
Hence it needs to be "tempered." Now 
while the glutinous material is rendered 
insoluble — that is, it is so acted upon by 
formaldehyde and the chemical action 
which takes place while the united solu- 
tions are giving off their watery constit- 
uents that it will not fully dissolve— it 
is, however, in a condition to be acted 
on by moisture, as it. will swell and ab- 
sorb, or take up permanently by either 
chemical or mechanical action a per- 
centage of water, and will also become 
improved in many respects, so that to 
temper and render the paper soft and 
pliable and adapt it for most com- 
mercial uses it is subjected to moisture, 
which penetrates the paper, causing a 
welling in all directions, filling 
interstices perfectly and resulting m 
"hydration" throughout the entire cel- 
lular structure. Two actions, mechanical 
and chemical, appear to take place, i 
mechanical action being the temporary 
absorption of water analogous to tno ^ 
sorption of water by a dry sponge, 
chemical action being the P e ^ ma ° e J 
union of water with the treated pap j 




or cement 
f erred to pass 



For this purpose it isPJJ 
the paper into » 



of hot water, saturated steam o re q" 1 /*,, 



lent heat-and-moisture 



causing the fibers and the I1 ? a ."„ rS tic# 
glutinous material filling t he i( \ {oT d 
\ to expand in all directions an" 



WATERPROOFING— WAX 



753 



t fJnous material into all the mi- 
the « Iu ?' n °J re , or openings and into the 
croscopic po ^ inff a commingling 
masses of J D ?;> ora £ on of the fibers 
0T i h Z e ^non! compound, At the 
d f as heretofore indicated, 



or 
an 



same u ?^ f i rat ion) takes place, whereby 
^T$n*d mw of fiber, glutinous 
the hardenea formaldehyde become 

material, so f te ned and the strength 
teanperea ious treatment m- 

nopartea up heig f, ten the tempering and 



the hardeneOj fnrlTmldchvde become 
materia 

temped 
imparted 

creased- - --- " lycer i ne mav in some 
^TZfs be intr°oduced in the temper- 
f S and in most cases one two- 
ftdredths in volume of glycerine gives 

th i S ^tay be dried in any con- 
venient manner and is m condition for 
S S commercial uses, it being greatly 
sCngthened, more flexible, more im- 
nerVious to moisture, acids grease or 
Alkalies and is suitable for the manufac- 
ture of binding-twine, carpets, and many 
novelties, for dry wrappings and lining 
packing cases, etc., but is liable to have 
a disagreeable taste and may carry 
traces of acids, rendering it impracti- 
cable for some uses — for instance, wrap- 
ping butter, meats, cheese, etc., after 
receiving the alkali treatment. The 
paper is also valuable as a packing for 
joints in steam, water, and other pipes or 
connections. For the purpose, there- 
fore, of rendering the material absolutely 
free from all traces of acidity and all 
taste and odors and, in fact, to render it 
absolutely hygienic, it is passed through 
a bath of water and a volatile alkali (am- 
monium hydrate), the proportion by pref- 
erence in a majority of cases being one- 
hundredth of ammonium hydrate to 
ninety-nine one-hundredths of water by 
volume. A small percentage of wood 
alcohol may be added. This bath is 
Preferably cool, but a variation in its 
temperature will not interfere to a seri- 
ous extent with the results. The effect of 
"jis bath followed by drying is to com- 
allt the ctemica l reaction and dest". oy 
of ta ^ e °r odor, removing all traces 
\ a .cids and rendering the paper hy- 
gemc in all respects. The material may 
of^ ered cr cu t and used for any 
is J e k pur P° s es desired. If the material 
i bath ■! ^ UD i ec ted to the volatile alkali 
; tween +k 1S not necess o- r y to dry it be- 
' baths tem pering and volatile alkali 
Th 

the fnt pa P er made in accordance with 
to b e „ 8 ° m f il is claimed, be found 
trials E r ? a ^? strengthened, some ma- 
lOO u increased in strength from 
10 7 °0 per cent'. It will be 




absorbent to acids, greases, and alkalies, 
and substantially waterproof, and owing 
to its component integrate structure will 
be practically non-conductive to elec 
tncity, adapting it as a superior insu- 
lating material. It may with perfect safety 
be employed for wrapping butter, meats, 
spices, groceries, and all materials, whether 
unctuous or otherwise. 
t The term "hydration" means the sub- 
jecting of the material (after treatment 
with glutinous material and formalde- 
hyde and drying) to moisture, whereby 
the action described takes place. 

A sheet or web of paper can be treated 
by the process as rapidly as it is manu- 
factured, as the time for exposure to the 
action of the glutinous material need not 
be longer than the time required for it to 
become saturated, this, of course, vary- 
ing with different thicknesses and 
densities, and the length of time of ex- 
posure may be fixed without checking 
the speed by making the tank of such 
length that the requisite time will elapse 
while the sheet is passing through it and 
the guides so arranged as to maintain the 
sheet in position to be acted on by such 
solution the requisite length of time. 
Four seconds' exposure to the action o? 
formaldehyde is found sufficient in most 
cases. 

"Waterproof Ropes.— For making ropes 
and lines impervious to weather, the 
process of tarring is recommended, which 
can be done either in the separate strands 
or after the rope is twisted An add V 
tion of tallow gives greater pliability. 

Waterproof Wood. . — I. — Soak in a 
mixture of boracic acid, 6 parts; ammo- 
Sum chloride, 5 parts; sodium borate, 8 
parts, and water, 100 parts. 

Unsaturate in a solution of smo 
chloride. 

Wax 

phur, starch, fecula ^ P ]qW 

tallow, palm °% C ^" d sa wdust. t , 
ocher, .water, **J co ld alcohol, 

Rosins are d^f 1 ^ £7 subs tances 

wh ich dissolves -M ^^ The 
and exercises no action on d ^ 

rosins having been extr tioTL of 

alcoholic solution by the evag b 
K -^A" X odors disengaged 

^Inl^lubTances may be readdy 




WAX 



0d ot . ?' P ™ starchy substances, which, 
rates wax from starcny disso lve, 
like earthy matters, ao . thod 
but form a res due ^ A sin ^ fo 

wa ter; the gel atn iu coloration in 

by the water, and t ne m ^ 

presence of lod * n *;/ h n s ^ ce V Adultera- 
^^"0 fatrTh^nd fecula is 
Lanent These substances are 
quite ; re q uen ;r , tn trie wax n a pro- 
sometimes added to tne w«* * 
nortion of nearly 60 per cent. lo sepa 
lh„r_ the suspected product is 



S uquid, while the wax, m coohB|, f or^ 
« crust on the surface. It is taken uu 
and Sighed; the difference between its 
weight and that of the product analyzed 
wS give the quantity of the amylaceous 
substances. ■ i 

Flowers of sulphur are recognized 
readily from the odor of sulphurous acid 
during combustion on red-hot iron. 

Tallow may be detected by the taste 
and odor. Pure wax has an aromatic, 
agreeable taste, while that mixed with 
tallow is repulsive both in taste and 
smell. Pure wax, worked between the 
fingers, grows soft, preserving a certain 
cohesion in all parts. It divides into 
lumps, which adhere to the fingers, if it 
is mixed with tallow. The adulteration 
may also be detected by the thick and 
nauseating fumes produced when it is 
burned on heated iron. 

Stearic acid may be recognized by 
means of boiling alcohol, which dissolves 
it in nearly all proportions and causes it 
to deposit crystals on cooling, while it is 
without action on the wax. Blue litmus 
paper, immersed in alcohol solution, 
reddens on drying in air, and thus serves 
for detecting the presence of stearic acid. 

Ocher is found by treating the wax 
with boiling water. A lemon-yellow 
deposit results, which, taken up with 
chlorhydric acid, yields with ammonia a 
lemon-yellow precipitate of ferric oxide. 

The powder of burnt bones separates 
and forms a residue, when the wax is 
heated with oil of turpentine. 

Artificial Beeswax.— This is obtained 
oy mixing the following substances, in ap- 
proximately the proportions stated: Paraf- 
biie, 45 parts, by weight; white Japan 
veeetable wax, 30 parts, by weight; rosins. 



or colophonies, 10 parts, by weight; white 
pitch, 10 parts, by weight; tallow, 5 pajU 
by weight; ceresine, colorant, 0.030 parts 
by weight; wax perfume, 0.100 parts, by 
weight. If desired, the paraffine may b e 
replaced with ozokerite, or by a mixture 
of vaseline and ozokerite, for the purpose 
of varying the fusing temperature, or 
rendering it more advantageous for the 
various applications designed. The fol- 
lowing is the method of preparation: 
Melt on the boiling water bath, shaking 
constantly, the paraffine, the Japan wax, 
the rosins, the pitch, and the tallow. 
When the fusion is complete, add the 
colorant and the perfume. When these 
products are perfectly mingled, remove 
from the fire, allow the mixture to cool, 
and run it into suitable molds. The wax 
thus obtained may be employed specially 
for encaustics for furniture and floors, or 
for purposes where varnish is employed. 
Waxes for Floors, Furniture, etc.— 

I. — White beeswax 16 parts 

Colophony . . 4 parts 

Venice turpentine. . 1 part 
Melt the articles together over a gentle 
fire, and when completely melted and 
homogeneous, pour into a sizable earthen- 
ware vessel, and stir in, while still warm, 
o parts of the best French turpentine. 
Cool for 24 hours, by which time the 
mass has acquired the consistence of sort, 
butter, and is ready for use. Its method 
of use is very simple. It is smeared J 
small quantities, on woolen cloths, ana 
with these is rubbed into the wood. 

This is the best preparation, but one m 
which the beeswax is merely dissolved 
in the turpentine in such a way as to • M 
the consistence of a not too thin U dor 
will answer. The wood is treated**! 
this, taking care that the 
evenly covered with the mixture, and jj 
it doe's not sink too deep 
ments, corners, etc., ot tne « 
This is best achieved by taking car 
scrape off from the cloths all extes 

the wax. , . „_ + i ie sur- 

If, in the course of 24 hours, tJJ^ gQ 
face is hard, then with a stirr ]ighing 
over it, much after the way ot : p° 
a boot. For the corners ana ^ 
smaller brushes are used; when n^. 



inal polish, 

of linseed oil or a washing 
leum before beginning worK. xp0 sed 
IT. — Articles that are al^ eci ; lly d 
to the water, floors, doors, be sat i> 
oak, should, from lime to ub - 



WAX 



755 



•ih nil or was A house door, 
r * te Wlv decorated with wood carving, 
plentiful? u or warp( eveI1 w h ere the 

* m ^res hottest on it, when it is fre- 
saa !ff treated to saturation with wax 
quently trea . q dosaffe Wlt h hn- 

^ i ; s sufficient. Varnish, without 
s eed ?y-*;«n of turpentine, should never 
the » d f'f if ise d it should be followed 
he used, ° r 1A 
EJ , coat of wax. 

7 ttt A eood floor wax is composed of 
fTof wax and 3 parts of Venice 
2 f 9 L melted on the water bath, and 
turpentine, me li d whI]e st0 , hot? u 

^"SK brush, for the application, 
a Kl en it has become solid and dry 
«ly rubbed, or polished down with 
f Sen cloth, or With a floor brush, 
especially made for the purpose 

tv— An emulsion of 5 parts of yellow 
L x 3 parts of crude potassium carbon- 
S\nS 12 parts of water, boiled to- 
gether until tley assume a milky color 
and the solids are dissolved, used cold, 
makes an excellent composition for floors. 
Any desired color may be given this 
dressing by stirring in the powdered col- 
oring matter. Use it exactly as de- 
scribed for the first mass. 

Gilders' Wax.— For the_ production of 
various colorings of gold in fire gilding, 
the respective places are rr~quently 
covered with so-called gilders' wax. 
These consist of mixtures of various 
chemicals which have an etching action 
in the red heat upon the bronze mass, 
thus causing roughness of unequal depth, 
as -well as through the fact that the com- 
position of the bronze is changed some- 
what on the surface, a relief of the gold 
color being effected in consequence of 
[ these two circumstances. The gilding 
wax is prepared by melting together th 
auely powdered chemicals with wax ac- 
cording to the following recipes: 

fellow wax 32 

1; «ed chalk q 

verdigri S ;;;;;;;; % 

Burnt alum... * 

\ Jimthorax... '" __ .._ 

^PPperash... " 4 

*jac vitriol. "' _ 

^reen vitriol. 

Grafting Wax.— 
■ ^Beeswax 

j j^ified rosin'.'.'.'.'. '* 12 

turpentine * 

J g a Peoil... 



11 

32 
24 
4 
4 



III 


IV V 


32 


96 33 


18 


48 18 


18 


32 18 


2 


1 3 


8 


20 8 




82 18 




1 6 


7 


parts 


12 


parts 


3 


parts 


1 


part 


2.5 parts 


2.5 parts 



H- — Japan wax \ 

Yellow wax . 3 

Rosin ; ; g 

Turpentine 4 

Hard paraffine. . .. ;*. l 

Suet 3 

Venice turpentine 6 



part 
parts 
parts 
parts 
part 
parts 
parts 



parts 
parts 
part 



Harness Wax. — 

Oil of turpentine 80 

Wax, yellow 9 

Prussian olue 1 

* ndl g°y: 0.5 parts 
Jione black 5 parts 

Dissolve the wax in the oil by aid of a 
low heat, on a water bath. Mix the re- 
maining ingredients, which must be well 
powdered, and work up with a portion of 
the solution of wax. Finally, add the 
mixture to the solution, and mix thor- 
oughly on the bath. When a homogene- 
ous liquid is obtained, pour into earthen 
boxes. 

Modeling Wa x. — I. — Yellow wax, 
1,000 parts; Venice turpentine, 180 parts; 
lard, G5 parts; bole, 725 parts. The 
mixture when still liquid is poured into 
tepid water and kneaded until a plastic 
mass is obtained. 

II. — Summer Modeling Wax.— White 
wax, 20 parts; ordinary turpentine, 4 
parts; sesame oil, 1 part; vermilion, 2 
parts. 

III. — Winter Modeling Wax.— White 
wax, 20 parts; ordinary turpentine, 6 
parts; sesame oil, 2 parts; vermilion, 8 
parts. Preparation same as for b ormuJa l. 

Sealing Waxes.— The following for- 
mulas may be followed for making seal- 
£g wax: Take 4 pounds °* 1 
nound of Venice turpentine, and 3 pounds 
of verm lion. Melt the lac in a copper 

soon afterwards add tn ; verm ^ 
ring briskly all t j^^^d sticks 
either hand. In i 0 ™ 11 ^ UO rtion of the 
of sealing wax, a certain por no * 
Sassslmuld be ^^^bi of 

rolling a mass : of pjUs. flf ling 

The oval and square sx &h 
wax are cast in molds, ™ The 
compound in a a ate o j 
marks of the i' n ^ te ° rW i r ds removed by 



WAX __WEATHER FORECASTERS 



756 

two, three or ^re colored kind^ to- 
From the^visddity of the several 
Stat f-- n , thdr incorporation is left m- 
portions their in H the appe arance 
complete so as to or wax is mad e 

of marbling- car § me instead of 

simply by addu ff^^d 0 ™ sius . Wax 
Verm t° n scen^d by producing a little 
may ?!l S essence of musk, or other 
SSSS If 1 of balsam of Peru be 
periume. ai ^ f ^arts of the seal- 

h± *£X» Won! In 1 agreeable fc*. 

with it Either lampblack or i\or> maca 

tta« mad" m the manufacture of sealing 

I. _Use of filling agents which are too 
coarsely ground. 

II. — Excessive use of filling agents. ^ 
HI —Insufficient binding of the pig- 
ments and fillings with a suitable ad- 
hesive agent, which causes these bodies 
to absorb the adhesive power of the 
gums. 

IV, — Excessive heating of the mass, 
caused by improper melting or faulty 
admixture of the gummy bodies. Tur- 
pentine and rosin must be heated before 
entering the shellac. If this rule is in- 
verted, as is often the case, the shellac 
sticks to the bottom and burns partly. 

Great care must be taken to mix the 
coloring matter to a paste with spirit or 
oil of turpentine before adding to the 
other ingredients. Unless this is done 
the wax will not be of a regular tint. 

Dark Blue Wax. — Three ounces Vene- 
tian turpentine, 4 ounces shellac, 1 ounce 
rosin, 1 ounce Prussian blue, J ounce 
magnesia. 

Green "Wax. — Two ounces Venetian 
turpentine, 4 ounces shellac, ounces 
rosin, J ounce chrome yellow, J ounce 
Prussian blue, 1 ounce magnesia. 

Carmine Red Wax. — -One ounce Vene- 
tian turpentine, 4 ounces shellac, 1 ounce 
rosin, colophony, ounces Chinese red, 
1 drachm magnesia, with oil of turpen- 
tine. 

Gold Wax. — Pour ounces Venetian 
turpentine, 8 ounces shellac, 14 sheets of 
genuine leaf gold, ?, ounce bronze, J 
ounce magnesia, with oil of turpentine". 

White Wax. — I.— The wax is bleached 
exposing to moist air and to the sun, 




but it must first be prepared i n thin 
sheets or ribbons or in grams. p or thia 
purpose it is first washed, to fr^e it f rom 
the honey which may adhere, melted 
and poured into a tin vessel, whose botl 
torn is perforated with narrow silts" 
The melted wax falls in a thin stream 
on a wooden cylinder arranged bcl 0w 
and half immersed m cold water. This 
cylinder is turned, and the wax, rolW 
round in thin leaves, afterwards falls int 
to the water. To melt it in grains, a 
vessel is made use of, perforated with 
small openings.^ which can be rotated. 
The wax is projected in graina into the 
cold water. It is spread on frames of 
muslini, moistened with water several 
times a day, and exposed to the sun until 
the wax assumes a fine white. Thia 
whiteness, however, is not perfect. The 
operation of melting and separating into 
ribbons or grains must be renewed. 
Finally, it is melted and flowed into 
molds. The duration of the bleaching 
may be abridged by adding to the wax, 
treated as above, from 1.25 to 1,75 per 
cent of rectified oil of turpentine, free 
from rosin. In 6 or 8 days a result will 
be secured which would otherwise re- 
quire 5 or 6 weeks. 

II. — Bleached shellac 28 parts 

Venetian turpentine.. 13 parts 
Plaster of Paris . 30 parts 

WAX FIGURES RENOVATING: 

Apply with a soft stubby brush 
powdered pumice stone until the wax has 
lost its yellow hue then with a brush 
apply a flesh tint consisting of pulverized 
prepared chalk, powdered pumice stone, 
and a trifle of oxide of zinc. After this 
to the same powder just used, mix a wue 
carmine and put on cheeks and lohes o 
ears. Then with a fine brush, color tne 
lips and inside of angles of the eyes mtj 
a liquid solution of carmine to wnicn 
ben added a trifle of gum arabic 

Weather Forecasters 

(See also Hygrometers and Hygroscop<W 
I.-lt is Known that, a leaf of blottjj! 
paper or a strip of fabric made io £ 
color according to the hygrometr c s 
of the atmosphere has been emp j ft 
for weather indications m P la „ min d is 
barometer. The following com ^ ne pa rt 
recommended for this purpose n j c kel 
of cobalt chloride, 75 parts o tf 
oxide, 20 parts of gelatin, . a» d ~ [ k ed i» 
of water. A strip of calico, s^k fiBe 
this solution, will appear gret 
weather, but when moisture 
the color disappears. 



WEATHER FORECASTERS 



751 



H^ConpercUoride.... 1 

ffc::::::».- 100U 

ttt This is a method of making old- 
j weather glasses containing a 
P h T?L cloui or solidifies under 
Uq Mb atmospheric conditions: 
certait i awo F drachms 

ffSS V. 11 drachms 

Q°° h ° [ . 9 drachms 
SltpeteV." v'...- |8 grains 
Sal ammoniac... 38 grams 
Dissolve the camphor in the alcohol 
a !hl salts in the water and mix the 
h d J L foleSer. Pour in test tubes, 
£S& corking and make a 
£ if throuch the cork with a red-hot 
& oXw out the tube until only a 
hole remains. When the camphor 
|c appear soft and powdery, and 
almost Ming the tube, ram with south or 
southwest winds may he expeeted; when 
crystalline, north, northeast, ■ or north- 
west winds, with fine weather, may be 
expected; when a portion crystallizes 
on one side of the tube, wind may be 
expected from that direction. Fine 
weather: The substance remains entirely 
at bottom of tube and the liquid per- 
fectly clear. Coming rain: Substance 
will rise gradually, liquid will be very 
clear, with a small star in motion.^ A 
coming storm or very high wind: Sub- 
stance partly at top of tube, and of a 
leaflike form, liquid very heavy and in 
a fermenting state. These effects are 
noticeable 24 hours before the change sets 
in. In winter: Generally the substance 
lies higher in the tube. Snow or white 
frosty Substance very white and small 
stars in motion. Summer weather: The 
substance will lie quite low. The sub- 
stance will lie closer to the tube on the 
opposite side to the quarter from which 
the storm is coming. The instrument is 
nothing more than a scientific toy, 

WfATHERPROOFING: 

nee Paints. 

^EED KILLERS: 

oee Disinfectants. 

Weights and Measures 

[ ^^ATIONAL ATOMIC WEIGHTS. 

I At<W ^P. ter national Committee on 
tahU Wei gbts have presented this 
i at)le as corrected: 



A£ num Al 



A 



0 = 16 
27.1 

120.2 
39.9 



H-l 
26.9 

119.3 
39.6 



Arsenic a.s 

Barium Ba 

Bismuth Bi 

Boron B 

Bromine . Br 

Cadmium Cd 

Caesium Cs 

Calcium Ca 

Carbon C 

Cerium Ce 

Chlorine ....... CI 

Chromium Cr 

Cobalt Co 

Columbium. . . . Cb 

Copper Cu 

Erbium Er 

Fluorine F 

Gadolinium. . . . Gd 

Gallium Ga 

Germanium.... Ge 

Glucinum Gl 

Gold Au 

Helium. He 

Hydrogen H 

Indium In 

Iodine I 

Iridium Ir 

Iron Fe 

Krypton Kr 

Lanthanum. . . . La 

Lead Pb 

Lithium Li 

Magnesium.... Mg 
Manganese .... Mn 

Mercury Hg 

Molybdenum . . Mo 
Neodvmium.. . . Nd 

Neon". Ne 

Nickel Ni 

Nitrogen N 

Osmium Os 

Oxygen g 

Palladium Id 

Phosphorus P 

Platinum Ft 

Potassium £ 

Praseodymium, lr 

Radium £ a 

Rhodium Ku 

Rubidium p 

Ruthenium . . • ■ Ku 
Samarium. g m 

Scandium » c 

Selenium °? 

Silicon. % 

Silver Ag 

Sodium £ a 

Strontium ° r 

Sulphur ? 

Tantalum a* 

Tellurium 

Terbium i,, 

Thallium - - Al 



008 



0 = 16 

75 

137.4 
208.5 
11 

79.96 
112.4 
132.9 

40.1 

12 
140.25 

35.45 

52.1 

59 

94 

63.6 
166 
19 
156 
70 
72.5 
9.1 
197.2 
4 
1 
115 

126.97 
193 

55,9 

81 .8 
138.9 
206.9 
7.03 

24.36 

55 
200 

96 
143.6 

20 

58.7 
14.04 

191 
16 

109.5 
31 

194.8 
39.15 

140.5 

225 

103 
85.5 

101.7 

150.3 
44.1 
79.2 
28.4 

107.93 
23.05 
87. 6 
32.06 

183 

127.6 

160 

204,1 



H-l 
74.4 
136.4 
206.9 
10.9 
79.36 
111.6 
131.9 
39.7 
11.91 
139.2 
35.18 
51.7 
58.55 
93.3 
63.1 
164.8 
.18.9 
154.8 
69.5 
72 

9.03 
195.7 
4 
1 

114.1 
125.01 
191.5 
55.5 
81.2 
137.9 
205.35 
6.98 
24.18 
54.6 
198.5 
95.3 
142.5 
19.9 
58.3 
13.93 
189.6 

15.88 
105.7 
30.77 
193.3 
38.83 
139.4 
223.3 
102.2 
84.9 
100.9 
149.2 
43.8 
78.6 
28.2 
107.11 
22.88 
86.94 
31.82 

181.6 
126.6 
158.8 
202.6 



,8 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC WEIGHTS- Continued, 



Th 

Thorium 

Thulium ^ m 

Tin.,- |n 

Titamum 

Tungsten « 

Uranium u 

UNITED 



0-16 
232.5 
171 
119 
48. 1 
184 
23S.5 



H-l 
230.8 
169.7 
118.1 
47.7 
182.6 
236.7 



Zinc 





0 = 


I'd 


V 


51. 


2 


Xe 


128 




Yb 


173 




Yt 


89 




Zn 


65 


.4 


Zr 


90 


.6 



H-i 

50.8 
127 
171.7 

88.3 

89.9 



STATES WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

(According to existing standards) 
LINEAL 

laches- Feet. Yards. Bods. Fur's. Mile. 



12 inches =1 foot. 
3 feet = 1 yard. 
5.5 yards =1 rod. 
40 rods==l furlong. 
8 furlongs=l mile. 



12- - , 
36= 3 = 1 
198= 16-5= 5,6— 1 

T.020- 660 " 1 7rn -320 - 
63360=5,280 = 1,760 = 320 = 

SURFACE— LAND 

Feet. Yards. 
9=1 
272.25= 30.25- 
10,890= 1.210 = 
43,560 = 4,840 = 
27 878,400 = 3,097,500- 



144 sq. inches = 1 square foot. 
9 square feet- 1 square yard 
30 25 square yards - 1 square rod . 
40 square rods = 1 square rood. 
4 aquare roods = 1 acre. 
640 acres=l square mile. 

VOLUME — LIQUID 

GUIs. Pints. Gallon. Cub. In 
32 = 8 - 1 = 231 



Rods. Roods. Acres. 



1 

40= 1 
160= 4= 
102,400=2,560= 



■ 1 
■640 



4 gills — 1 pmt. 
2 pints ' 1 quart. 
4 quarts = 1 gallon. 

FLUID MEASURE 
Gallon. Pints. Ounces. Drachms. Minims 
1 = 8 
1 



128 
16 
1 



Pound. 
1 



1 024 — 61,440 
128 = 7,680 
8 - 480 
1 = 60 
16 ounces, or a pint, is sometimes called a fluidpound 
TROY WEIGHT 
Ounces. Pennyweights. Grains 
13 - 240 - 5,760 
1 = 20 = 480 

1 = 24 



Cubic Centimeters. 
= 3,785.435 
= 473.179 
= 29.574 
3.697 



Grams. 
373.24 
31.10 
1.56 



APOTHECARIES' WEIGHT 

ft.. 3 3 S 

Pound. Ounces. Drachms. Scruples 
1 - 12 = 96 = 288 ■■ 
1 = 8 = 24 ■■ 
1 =■ 3 
1 



gr. 

Grains. 
5,760 
480 
60 
20 
1 



Gram3. 
373.24 
31.10 
3.89 
1.30 
.06 



The pound, ounce, and grain are the same as in Troy weight. 
AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT 
Pound. Ounces. Drachma. Grains (Troy) Grams. 
1 = 16 = 256 = 7,000 = 453.60 

1 = 16 = 437.5 = 28.35 
1 - 27.34 = 1.77 



ENGLISH WEIGHTS 

APOTHECARIES' WEIGHT 
20 grains = 1 scruple = 20 grains 
3 scruples = 1 drachm = 60 grains 
8 drachms = 1 ounce = 480 grains 
12 ounces - 1 pound - 5,760 grains 

FLUID MEASURE 
60 minims = 1 fluidraclim 

8 drachms = 1 fluidounce 
20 ounces - 1 pint 

8 pints = 1 gallon 

The above weights are usually adopted 
in formulas. 



AND MEASURES 

All chemicals are usually sold by 
AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT _ 
27U grains =1 drachm = .fT&gg 
16 drachms = 1 ounce = ' £ m j n s 
16 ounces = 1 pound = 7,UUU s 

Precious metals are usually sold by 
TROY WEIGHT ^ grainS 
24 grains — 1 pennyweight =<= ^grains 

20 pennyweights = 1 ounce ^ r Jfy grains 

12ounce3 = 1 pound "' C[Tll tai!> 9 

Note— An ounce of metallic si K^yer 
480 grains, but an ounce of nitrate w 
tains only 437j grains. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



75» 



METRIC SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
MEASURES OF LENGTH 



Denominations and Vai/des. 



jlyriaraeter. 
Kilometer. . 
Hectometer 
pekameter. 
Meter..- - - ■ 
Decime ter - ■ 
Centimeter. 
Millimeter.. 



10.000 meters 
1,000 meters 
100 meters 
10 meters 
1 meter 
lrlOth of a meter 
1-1 00th of a meter 
1-1 ,000th of a meter 



Equivalents in Use. 



6.2137 miles 
.62137 miles, or3,2&0feet,10inohes 



328 
393.7 
39.37 
3.937 
.3937 
.0394 



'eet and 1 inch 
inches 
inches 
inches 
inches 
inches 



MEASURES OF SURFACE 



Denominations and Values. 







10,000 square meters 


2.471 acres 




100 square meters 


119.6 square yards 
1,550 square inches 




1 square meter 









Equivalents in Use, 



MEASURES OF VOLUME 



Denominations and Values. 


Equivalents in Use. 


Names. 


No. OF 
Liters.! 


Cubic Measures. 


Dry Measure. 


Wine Measure. 


Kiloliter or stere . 
Dekaliter 

Milliliter 


1,000 
100 

10 

1 

1-10 
1-100 
1-1,000 


1 cubic meter 
l-10th cubic meter 

10 cubic decimeters 
1 cubic decimeter 
l-10th cubic decimeter 

10 cubic centimeters 
1 cubic centimeter 


1 .308 cubic yards 

2 bushels and 
3.35 pecks 

9.08 quarts 
.908 quarts 

6.1023 cubic inches 
.6102 cubic inches 
.061 oubie inches 


264.17 gallons 
26.417 gallons 

2.6417 gallons 
1.0567 quarts 
.845 gills 
.338 Buidounces 
.27 fluidrachms 



WEIGHTS 



Denominations and Values. 



Names. 



Number I Weight OF VoloteofWatbe 
of Grams. at its Maximum Density. 



Millie: 



r or Tonneau 



* umsatl 1,000,000 

100,000 



%nagram 
£Uogram or Kilo 
Hectogram, . . , 
JJeKagram. . . 

warn 

Decigram..".! ' 
V^tigrara, 
Milligram . 



10,000 
1,000 
100 
10 

1 

1-10 
1-100 
-1,000 



1 cubic meter 
1 hectoliter 
10 liters 
1 liter 

1 deciliter . 
10 cubic centimeter* 
1 cubic centimeter 
l-10lhof acubic centuneter 
10 cubic mi l imeters 
1 cubio millimeter 



Equivalents 
in Use. 



Avothdupois 
Weight. 



2,204.6 pounds 
220.46 pounds 
22.046 pounds 

2 2046 pounds 

3 5274 ounces 
.3527 ounces 

15.432 grains 
1.5432 grams 
.1543 grains 
.0154 grams 



760 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



T HE CONVERSION OF METRIC INTO ENGLISH WEIGHT 
Th e following table, which contains no error greater than one-tenth of a 
-office for most practical purposes: 



grain, will 



lgram = 

2 grams = 

3 grama = 

4 gram 8= 

5 grams= 

6 grains => 

7 grams= 

8 grams = 

9 grams= 

10 grams — 

11 grams = 

12 gram3= 

13 grams = 

14 grams = 

15 grams'" 

16 grams = 

17 grams— 
IS grama = 

19 grams = 

20 grams = 
30 grams = 
40 grams — 
50 grams = 
60 grams ■= 
70 grams = 
80 grams = 
90 grams = 

100 grams = 
1,000 grams - 



123i grains, or 
138f grains, or 
1S4| grains, or 
1693 grains, or 



151 grains 
3 0| grains 
46s grains 

61 1 grains, or 1 drachm, It grams 
77 s grains, or 1 drachm, 17 J grains 
923 grains, or 1 drachm, 32g grains 
108 grains, or 1 drachm, 48 grains 
2 drachms, 3f grains 
2 drachms, 18£ grains 
2 drachms, 34| grains 
2 drachms, 49 s grains 
185i grains, or 3 drachms, grains 
200| grains, or 3 drachms , 20-g grains 
216 grains, or 3 drachms, 30 grains 
231? grains, or 3 drachms, 511 grains 
247 grains, or 4 drachms, 7 grains 
262| grains, or 4 drachms, 22| grains 
277i grains, or 4 drachms, 37| grains 
293£ grains, or 4 drachms, 53£ grains 
308| grains, or 5 drachms, 8 1 grains 
463 grains, or 7 drachms, 43 grain* 
617J grains, or 10 drachms, 17% grains 
771f grains, or 12 drachms, 51$ grains 
926 grains, or 15 drachms, 26 grains 
1 ,080& grains, or 18 drachms, Oh grains 
1 ,234§ grains, or 20 drachms, 34g grains 
1,389 grains, or 23 drachms, 9 grains 
= 1 ,543k grains, or 25 drachms, 43* grains 
■ 1 kilogram=32 ounces, 1 drachm, 12f grains 



THE CONVERSION OF METRIC INTO ENGLISH MEASURE 



1 cubic centimeter =■ 

2 cubic centimeters = 

3 cubic centimeters= 

4 cubic centimeters ■=» 

5 cubic centimeters = 

6 cubic centimeters= 

7 cubic centimeters^ 
S cubic centimeters= 
9 cubic centimeters = 

10 cubic centimeters= 
20 cubic centimeters = 
30 cubic centimeters = 
40 cubic centimeters = 
50 cubic centime ters=* 
60 cubic centimeters^ 
70 cubic centimeters = 
80 cubic centimeters = 
SO cubic centimeters — 
100 cubic centimeters = 
1-000 cubic centimeters- 



17 minima 
34 minims 
51 minims 

68 minims, or 1 drachm, 8 minima 
85 minims, or 1 drachm, 25 minims 
101 minims, or 1 drachm, 41 minims 
118 minima, or 1 drachm, 58 minims 
135 minims, or 2 drachms, 15 minims 
152 minims, or 2 drachms, 32 minims 
166 minims, or 2 drachms, 49 minims 
338 minima, or 5 drachms, 38 minims 
507 minims, or 1 ounce, 0 drachm, 27 minims 
676 minims, or 1 ounce, 3 drachma, 16 minims 
845 minims, or 1 ounce, 6 drachms, 5 minims 
1 ,014 minims, or 2 ounces, 0 drachms, 54 minims 
1,183 minims, or 2 ounces, 3 drachms, 43 minim 3 
1,352 minims, or 2 ounces, 6 drachms, 32 minims 
1,521 minims, or 3 ounces, 1 drachm, 21 minims 
1,690 minims, or 3 ounces, 4 drachms, 10 minims 
1 liter = 34 fluidouncea nearly, or 2§ pints. 



WELDING POWDERS— WHITEWASH 



761 



LD?& POWDERS. 

See also Steel. 

« to Weld Wrought Iron at Pale - 
P ^. Jfh Wrought Iron. — I. — Borax, 

W^ttf^ffht): sal ammoniac, J part; 

1 part CjyV° These ingredients are 

**?A with constant stirring until the 
boiled wtn c . t . g allQWed to harden 

maS ^LVfire' Upon cooling, the mass is 
cV fi A 1,0 into a powder and mixed with 
rUbb ,hhd P w?ought-iron filings free from 
0De ; When tie iron has reached red 
! US ; this powder is sprinkled on the 
^ to be welded, and after it has 
fi uefied, a few blows are sufficient to 
uSe the pieces. 

tt . Borax, 2 parts; wrought-iron 

filings, free from rust, 2 parts; sal am- 
teniae 1 Part. These pulverized parts 
Se moistened with copaiba balsam and 
made into a paste, then slowly dried over 
afire and again powdered. The applica- 
tion is the same as for Formula I. 

Welding Powder to Weld Steel on 
Wrought Iron at Pale -red Heat. — Borax, 
3 parts; potassium cyanide, 2 parts; 
Benin blue, 1-100 part. These substances 
are powdered well, moistened with water; 
next they are boiled with constant stirring 
until stiff; then dry over a fire._ Upon 
cooling, the mass is finely pulverized and 
mixed with 1 part of wrought-iron filings, 
free from rust. This powder is sprinkled 
repeatedly upon the hot pieces, and after 
it has burned in the welding is taken in 
haad. 

WHEEL GREASE; 
See Lubricants. 

WHETSTONES. 

To make artificial whetstones, take 
gelatin of good quality, dissolve it in 
equal weight of water, operating in 
Almost complete darkness, and add H 
Per cent of bichromate of potash, pre- 
viously dissolved. Next take about 9 
Junes the weight of the gelatin employed 
1 very fin e etnerv or g ne pow d e red gun 
stone, which is mixed intimatelv with the 
£7^ solution. The paste thus ob- 
Skin 13 molded into the desired shape, 
Xitp.vJ* °. aTe to exercise an energetic 
SEK I V n orde r to consolidate the mass. 
dr y by exposure to the sun. 

VTHITIUG: 

*e wh^" 11 • Mass es of Whiting.— Mix 
aad g lnto a stiff paste with water, 
When dr 1QaS3 Wil1 retail1 its coherence 



Whitewash 

(See also Paint.) 

Wash the ceiling by wetting it twice 
with water, laying on as much as can 
well be floated on, then rub the old 
color up with a stumpy brush and wipe 
ott with a large sponge. Stop all cracks 
with whiting and plaster of Paris. When 
dry, clancole with size and a little of the 
whitewash when this is dry. If very 
much stained, paint those parts with 
turps, color, and, if necessary, claricole 
again. To make the whitewash, take a 
dozen pounds of whiting (in large balls), 
break them up in a pa.il, and cover with 
water to soak. During this time melt 
over a slow fire 4 pounds common size, 
and at the same time, with a palette 
knife or small trowel, rub up fine albout a 
dessertspoonful of blue-black with water 
tb a fine paste; then pour the water off 
the top of the whiting and with a stick 
stir in the black; when well mixed, stir in 
the melted size and strain. _ When cold, 
it is fit for use. If the jelly is too stiff for 
use, beat it up well and add a little cold 
water. Commence whitewashing over 
the window and so work from the light. 
Distemper color of any tint^ may be 
made by using any other color instead of 
the blue-black — as ocher, chrome, Dutch 
pink, raw sienna for yellows and buff; 
Venetian red, burnt sienna, Indian red or 
purple brown for reds; celestial blue, 
ultramarine, indigo for blues; red and 
blue for purple, gray or lavender; red 
lead and chrome for orange; Brunswick 
green for greens. . ., 

Ox blood in lime paint is an excellent 
binding agent for the lime, as it is chiet- 
IV compofed of albumin, which like 
Lefn o P r milk, is capable ?f transform- 
ing the lime into casein paint. Hut tne 
oxVlood must be mixed « the lime gu^ 
to use it separate y is useless, if not harm 
ful Whitewashing rough morUr-plas. 
taring to saturation is very P™, ticah as lt 
dose! all the pores and smal ^les 
A formula r^^-^S 
d other public buildings 

d lime J Zt±» 



■ ;« "makine 1 whitewash for 

Government in maKing >* » L „., 4; „ ria 

light-houses 
is^as follows: 



Unslaked lime - * . 

Common salt g poUI1 ds 



Rice flour 1 p OUn 

Spanishwhiting-..-. ^ 



poun< 



Gflue (clean an< j 

WIS 0 a" "sufficient 

quantity. 1(? 

Slake the 1 me » * and add 

gallons capacity; cover it, 



WHITEWASH-WINKS AND LIQUOHS 



dissolved in 



warm 
k 



^^VoUU^Se flour in water; soa, 
if Jx'ue in water and dissolve on a water 
the glue in w together with the 

H^nfand I gal on S S hot water to 
Je , JtSring all well together 
Ave? to protect from dirt, and let it 
SaS for a few days, when it will be 
j IT, It is to be applied hot, 

rndlo^haTreasonlhould be^sed from 
a kettle over a portable furnace. 

To Soften Old Whitewash.— Wet the 
whitewash thoroughly with a ™ S h made 
of 1 pound of potash dissolved m 10 
quarts of water. 

WHITEWASH, TO REMOVE: 

See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 
ods. 

WHITE METAL: 

See Alloys. 

WINDOW -CLEANING COMPOUND: 
See Cleaning Compounds. 

WINDOW DISPLAY: 

See also Sponges. 

An attractive window display for 
stores can be prepared as follows: 

In a wide-mouth jar put some sand, 
say, about 6 inches in depth. ^ Make a 
mixture of equal parts of aluminum sul- 
phate, copper sulphate, and iron sul- 
phate, coarsely powdered, and strew it 
over the surface of the sand. Over this 
layer gently pour a solution of sodium 
silicate, dissolved in 3 parts of hot water, 
taking care not to disturb the layer of 
sulphates. In about a week or 10 days 
the surface will be covered with crystals 
of different colors, being silicates of 
different metals employed. Now take 
some pure water and let it run into the 
vessel by a small tube, using a little more 
of it than yon used of the water-glass 
solution. This will displace the water- 
glass solution, and a fresh crop of crystals 
will come in the silicates, and makes, 
when properly done, a pretty scene. 
Take care in pouring in the water to let 
the point of the tube be so arranged as 
not to disturb the crop of silicates. 

WINDOW PERFUME. 

In Paris an apparatus has been intro- 
duced consisting of a small tube which 
I? att * Cne d !en gthwise on the exterior of 
the shop windows. Through numerous 
little holes a warm, lightly perfumed 
current of air is passed, which pleasantly 
tickles the olfactory nerves of the looker- 
oa and at the same time keeps the panes 



clear and clean, so that the goads exhib- ' 
ited present the best possible appearance. 

WINE BRICKS: 

Simply press dry grapes into a brick 
with enough grape sugar or glucose 
added to hold it together. The drying i s 
not carried as far as is the case with 
raisins or prunes. Raisins or prunes 
would do as well for the purpose. 



Wines and Liquors 



name indicates, 
of bitter roots 



are 

and 



BITTERS. 

Bitters,_ as the 
merely tinctures 

barks, with the addition of spices to 
flavor, and depend for their effect upon 
their tonic action on the stomach. Taken 
too frequently, however, they may do 
harm, by ovcrstimulatmg the digestive 
organs. 

The recipes for some of these pre para- 
tions run to great lengths, one for An- 
gostura bitters containing no fewer than 
28 ingredients. A very good article, how- 
ever, maybe made without all this elabo< 
ration. The following, for instance, make 
a very good preparation: 

Gentian root (sliced).. 12 ounces 

Cinnamon bark 10 ounces 

Caraway seeds 10 ounces 

Juniper berries 2 ounces 

Cloves I °" nce 

Alcohol, 90 per cent . . 7 pints 

Macerate for a week; strain, press out, 
and filter, then add 

Capillaire H P^ 3 

Water to make up. . . . 3* gallons 

Strength about 45 u. p. 

Still another formula calls for Angostura 
bark, 2i ounces; gentian root, 1 ounc ^ 
cardamom seeds, Jounce; Turkey rhubarb 
I ounce; orange peel, 4 ounces; earciways 
4 ounce; cinnamon bark, £ ounce; cloves, 
\ ounce. 



Brandy Bitters. — 

Sliced gentian root . 3 

Dried orange peel. ... & 

Cardamom seed 1 

Bruised cinnamon,. . . 

Cochineal. • * 

Brandy 10 

Macerate for 14 days and strain. 

Hostetter's Bitters. — 

Calamus root 1 P oun 4 

Orange peel 1 P oUI1 ^ 

Peruvian bark 1 P oun J 

Gentian root 1 pound 



pounds 
pounds 
pound 
pound 
ounces 
pints 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



76» 



Calumbaroot \ P°und 

Rhubarb root. \ ounce. 

SUmon bark... --.Jounce. 

Macerate together for 2 weeks. 

CORDIALS. 

Tordials, according to the Spatula 
flavored liquors containing from 40 
f^O D er cent of alcohol (from 52 to 64 
LdoK to each gallon) and from 20 
fo ffper cent of sugar (from 25 to 32 
Innces avoirdupois to each gallon). 

Cordials, while used in this country to 
some degree, have their greatest con- 
sumption in foreign lands, especially m 
France and Germany. 

Usually such mixtures as these are 
clarified or "fined" only with consider- 
able difficulty, as the finally divided 
particles of oil pass easily through the 
pores of the filter paper. Purified talcum 
will be found to be an excellent clarifying 
medium; it should be agitated with the 
liquid and the liquid then passed through 
a thoroughly wetted filter. The filtrate 
should be returned again and again to 
the filter until it filters perfectly bright. 
Purified talcum being chemically inert is 
superior to magnesium carbonate and 
other substances which are recom- 
mended for this purpose. 

When the filtering process is com- 
pleted the liquids should at once be put 
into suitable bottles which should be 
filled and tightly corked and sealed. 
Wrap the bottles in paper and store 
away, laying the bottles on their sides in 
a moderately warm place. A shelf near 
toe ceiling is a good place. Warmth and 
age improve the beverages, as it appears 
J? f °J' e perfectly blend the flavors, so 
mat the older the liquor becomes the 
fetter it is. These liquids must never 
n! a c old place, as the cold might 

TV, ? ™ latil e oils to separate. 
hp<if e ? OUowi ng formulas are for the 
ami i *! tlon of cordials of the best quality, 
«J th er ef ore only the very best of 

ou^r l8 ,^ ould be used 5 the essential 
andKi £ e ^ f unquestionable quality 
be fr« ? ly fresh ' w blle the alcohol must 
and S 0m fusel oil > the water distilled, 
and if ■ ,. 8u Sar white, free from bluing, 
called f ; lquots 01 any kind should be 
beatsK^ u lr i an y formula only the very 

CI? u e used - The oils and other 

^heal^u . ances should be dissolved 

T ben ?! and the su S ar in the water * 
cl ear. e two solutions and filter 



Alkermes Cordial. 

gnein namoa \i 

Rose'watV; faVO,rdu P° is ^nce 

„ < best ) 6 fluidonnces 

Defdorized' ' A-** avoirdu P oi « ounc« 

c^. 01 - 52 fluidonnces 

Distilled water, 

q- 8 1 gallon 

Reduce the mace, cinnamon, and 
cloves to a coarse powder, macerate with 
the alcohol for several days, agitating 
occasionally, then add the remaining 
ingredients, and filter clear. 

Anise Cordial. — 

Anethol 7 fluidrachms 

Oil of fennel seed. . 80 minims 
Oil of bitter 

almonds 16 drops 

Deodorized alcohol 8 pints 

Simple syrup 5 pints 

Distilled water, q. s. 16 pints 

Mix the oils and anethol with the 
alcohol and the syrup with the water; 
mix the two and filter clear, as directed. 

Blackberry Cordial. — This beverage is 
usually misnamed "blackberry brandy" 
or "blackberry wine." This latier be- 
longs only to wines obtained by the 
fermentation of the blackberry juice. 
"When this is distilled then a true black- 
berry brandy is obtained, just as ordinary 
brandy is obtained by distilling ordinary 

wines. , ,. ..- 

The name is frequently applied to a 
preparation containing blackberry root 
often combined with other astringents, 
but the true blackberry cordial is made 
according to the formulas given here- 
with. Most of these mention brandy, 
Tnd Ms article should be good and f usej 
free or it may be replaced by good 
whisky or even by diluted . alcohol, de 
P^ndfng on whether a high-pneed or cheat 
cordial is desired. _ 

t Fresh blackberry juice 3 pints, 

S u al T?t»ce, water 30 

J tD the first f '"J^oto ofthe S e.-ond 

gently fl«° r , ed „ a |i r m 
solution. Then filter. . 
II ._ FreS h hlackherry j^e » P 

powdered ° u « m , e .f< f £f pojAred 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



P 5 Un f „ S ; s «eS days &»olve the 
5$. 'Z iSStA S, and filter dear. 

Cherry Cordials.— 

I — Oil of bitter almonds 8 drops 

Oil of cinnamon 1 drop 

Oil of clo ves ld~P 

Acetic ether. ^ ^ops 

Ceuanthic ether ] dr op 

VanUla -tract drachm 

US oL ::::::: :::: sjound. 

Cherry juice *° ounces 

Distilled water, q.s.. 1 gallon 
The oils, ethers, and extracts must be 
dissolved in the alcohol, the sugar in 
Hart of the water, then mix add the 
{See and filter clear. When the juice is 
lot sufficiently sour, add a small amount 
of solution of citric acid. To color, use 
caramel. 



IX, — Vanilla extract 10 



drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 



Oil of cinnamon 10 

Oil of bitter almonds. 10 

Oil of cloves 3 

Oil of nutmeg 3 

Alcohol 2 1 pints 

Cherry juice 2^ pints 

Simple syrup 3 pints 

Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, then 
add the other ingredients and filter clear. 
It is better to make this cordial during 
the cherry season so as to obtain the 
fresh expressed juice of the cherry. 

Curacoa Cordials. — 

I. — Curacoa orange peel.. 6 ounces 

Cinnamon J ounce 

Mace 2 1 drachms 

Alcohol 3^ pints 

Water i \ pints 

Sugar 12 ounces 

Mix the first three ingredients and re- 
duce them to a coarse powder, then mix 
with the alcohol and 4 pints of water and 
macerate for 8 days with an occasional 
agitation, express, add the sugar and 
enough water to make a gallon of finished 
product. Filter clear. 

II- — Curacoa or bitter 

orange peel % ounces 

Cloves go grains 

Cinnamon 80 grains 

Cochineal 60 grains 

Oil of orange (best) . . 1 drachm 

Orange- flower water. \ pint 

Holland gin i p i nt 

Alc °bol g pints 

^gar 3 Pints 

Water, q. s i gallon 



Reduce the solids to a coarse powder 
add the alcohol and macerate 3 days' 
Then add the oil, gin, and 3 pints D f 
water and continue the maceration f 0r 
8 days more, agitating once a day, strain 
and add sugar dissolved m balance of 
the water. Then add the orange-flower 
■water and filter. 

Kola Cordial.— 

Kola nuts, roasted 

and powdered 7 ounces 

Cochineal powder. ... 30 grains 
Extract of vanilla. ... 3 drachms 

Arrac 3 ounces 

Sugar 7 pounds 

Alcohol 6 pints 

Water, distilled 6 pints 

Macerate kola and cochineal with 
alcohol for 10 days, agitate daily, add 
arrac, vanilla, and sugar dissolved in 
water. Filter. 

Kiimmel Cordials. — 

I. — Oil of caraway 30 drops 

Oil of peppermint.. , . S drops 

Oil of lemon 3 drops 

Acetic ether 30 drops 

Spirit of nitrous ether 30 drops 

Sugar 72 ounces 

Alcohol 96 ounces 

Water 90 ounces 

Dissolve the oils and ethers in the al 

cohol, and the sugar in the water. Mix 

and filter. 

II. — Oil of carawav 20 drops 

Oil of sweet fennel ... 2 drops 

OH of cinnamon 1 drop 

Sugar 14 ounces 

Alcohol 2 pints 

Water 4 pints 

Prepare as in Formula I. 
Orange Cordials.— Many of the prepa- 
rations sold under this name are no 
really orange cordials, but are varying 
mixtures of uncertain composition, P 
sibly flavored with orange. 1 he touo^v 
ing are made by the use of oranges. 

I.— Sugar . 8 avoirdupois pounds 

Water 2 J gallons 

Oranges.. .. 15 .J 
Dissolve the sugar in the water b) «J 
aid of a gentle heat, express the oraau 
add the juice and rinds to the s r u g$I 
the mixture into a cask, keep t ^j rr ; n g 
in a warm place for 3 or 4 days. &s ide 
frequently, then close the cask, se ^ 
in a cool cellar and draw on tne 
liquid. 

II. — Express the juice fr< 
oranges, add water equal to tee 



sweet 
jum e 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



765 



of ju io ? 
presse 



obtained, and macerate the ex- 
oranges with the juice and water 
1 tut 12 hours. For each gallon of 
f° r a jj i pound of granulated sugar, 
juice, ao f Qp glucose , put the whole 
g ra P e Citable vessel, covering to exclude 
into a > , m a warm location until 
the d nfa'tiC is completed, draw off the 
fTliSSSf and preserve in well-stop- 
S bottles In a cool place. 



pe T TT ^Orange wine suitable for "soda' 
Eposes may be prepared by mixing 8 
Bounces- of orange essence with 13 
Bounces of sweet Catawba or other 
S wine. Some syrup may be added 
to this if desired. 
Rose Cordial. — 

Oil of rose, very best. . 3 drops 

Palmarusa oil 3 drops 

Sugar 28 ounces 

Alcohol 52 ounces 

Distilled water, q. s . . 8 pints 
Dissolve the sugar inthe water and 
the oils in the alcohol; mix the solutions, 
color a rose tint, and filter clear. 

Spearmint Cordial. — 

Oil of spearmint 30 drops 

Sugar 28 ounces 

Alcohol 52 ounces 

Distilled water, q. s . . 8 pints 
Dissolve the sugar in the water and the 
oil in the alcohol; mix the two solutions, 
color green, and filter clear. 

Absinthe. — 

I. — Oil of wormwood... 96 drops 
Oil of star anise ... 72 drops 

Oil of aniseed 48 drops 

Oil of coriander . ., 48 drops 
Oil of fennel, pure . 48 drops 
Oil of angelica 

root 24 drops 

Oil of thyme. . . . . . 24 drops 

Alcohol (pure) . . . . 162 fluidounces 

Distilled water. ... 30 fluidounces 

Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, add 

tae water, color green, and filter clear. 

II — Oil of wormwood. . 
Oil of orange peel. 
Oil of star anise. . . 
Oil of neroli petate 
*resh oil of lemon. 
Acetic ether . . . 



Su 



36 drops 
30 drops 
12 drops 
5 drops 
9 drops 
24 drops 



gar _ _ _ 30 avoirdupois 

ounces 

Alcohol, deodorized 90 fluidounces 
Lnshiisd water 78 fluidounces 

al C o{?T lve oils and ether in the 
ttiv Vl and th e sugar in the water; then 
clear r ° Ughl y' color S reen > and filter 



DETANNATING WINE. 

According to Caspari, the presence of 
appreciab e quantities of tannin £ Twine 
s decidedly objectionable if the winds to 
oe used m connection with iron and 
other metallic salts; moreover, tannin is 
incompatible with alkaloids, and hence 
wine not deprived of its tannin should 
never be used as a menstruum for alka- 
loidal drugs. The process of freeing 
wines from tannin is termed detannation, 
and is a very simple operation. The 
easiest plan is to add £ ounce of gelatin 
m number 40 or number 60 powder 
to 1 gallon of the wine, to agitate oc- 
casionally during 24 or 48 hours, and 
then to filter. The operation is prefer- 
ably carried out during cold weather or 
in a cold apartment, as heat will cause 
the gelatin to dissolve, and the macera- 
tion must be continued until a small 
portion of the wine mixed with a few 
drops of ferric chloride solution shows 
no darkening of color. Gelatin in large 
pieces is not suitable, especially with 
wines containing much tannin, since the 
newly formed tanna*e of gelatin will be 
deposited on the surface and prevent 
further intimate contact of the gelatin 
with the wine. Formerly freshly pre- 
pared ferric hydroxide was much em- 
ployed for detannating wine, but the chief 
objection to its use was due to the fact 
that some iron invariably was taken up by 
the acid present in the wine; moreover, 
the process was more tedious than in the 
case of gelatin. As the removal of 
tannin from wine in no way interferes 
with its quality— alcoholic strength and 
aroma remaining the same, and only 
coloring matter being lost-a supply of 
StannLd wine should be kept on band 
for it requires very little more labor to 

ItXttl^oZ of the expressed, 
bTmoist, precipitate to a 8^' 

Fermentation may be prev 

sist in tie erg 
antiseptics which Lather * ^ ^ 
or prevent their gg*^ ^ ]ie> ?u b 
principal °nes usea c ftCld 

The7e"r£; Tare either re»o«d bj 



766 

ing or a ^^PTy heat or electricity. 
fS^r lo d Mu found the most 

high temperature all J ^ ired> 
kl « ed - TfleTnot only with the par 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



however,. a l n ^' a """-[^ but also with 
fcular bad of orgam jm, ^ 

the hqu }d m Xorganism may not be 
is also a factor, m g temperature 

k nd d a; ckly coo e°df If however the 
and qwefv £ k t at t he same high 
SSVjftrso^B. it will be killed 
ft must also be borne in mind that fungi 
Sing yeasts, exist in the ;<R™« ^ 
the resting states, the latter being mucn 
Sore resistant than the former One 
Zraeteristic of the fungi and their 
spores is their great resistance to heat 
when dry. In this state they can be 
heated to 212° F. without being killed. 
The spores of the common mold are even 
more resistant. This should be well con- 
sidered in sterilizing bottles and corks, 
which should be steamed to 240° F. for 
at least 15 miuutes. t 

Practical tests so far made indicate 
that grape juice can be safely sterilized 
at from 165° to 176° F. At this tem- 
perature the flavor is hardly changed, 
while at a temperature much above 
200° P. it is. This is an important point, 
as the flavor and quality of the product 
depend on it. 

Use only clean, sound, well-ripened, 
but not over-ripe grapes. If an ordinary 
cider mill is at hand, it may be used for 
crushing and pressing, or the grapes 
may he crushed and pressed with the 
hands. If a light-colored juice is desired, 
put the crushed grapes in a cleanly 
washed cloth sack and tie up. Then 
either hang up securely and twist it or 
let two persons take hold, one on each 
end of the sack and twist until the great- 
er part of the juice is expressed. Next 
gradually heat the juice in a double 
boiler or a large stone jar in a pan of hot 
water, so that the juice does not come in 
direct contact with the fire at a tempera- 

MO» V T t° 200 ° F " llever above 
tmt : T lu " ls , best to use a thermometer, 
b f at hand heat the 

juice until it ateams, but do not allow it 
tut it in a glass or enameled 



to boil 

drain tt l° r 24 Wrs "' carefully 

SnStfc 3 T e fr ° m tne sediment, and 
flannel 8 S6Veral thic kne SS es of clean 



suspended wherever nece SSarv 
ean bottles. d 0 ^ 



woolen nui* t V 0 ? ie filter ma de from 
fflterS. e fi?i,°r fe \ ma y be use d. This 
* fixed to a hoop of iron, which 



can be 

After this fill into clean bottles, 
fill entirely, but leave room for the li Qu ; f1 
to expand when again heated, pit 
thin board over the bottom of an ordinal 
wash boiler, set the filled bottles ( or dY 
nary glass fruit jars are just as good) C 
it, fill in with water around the bottles to 
within about an inch of the tops, and 
gradually heat until it is about to simmer 
Then take the bottles out and cork or ' 
seal immediately. It is a good idea to 
take the further precaution of sealing the 
corks over with sealing wax or parafflne 
to prevent mold germs from entering 
through the corks. _ Should it be de- 
sired to make red juice, heat the crushed 
grapes to not above 200° F., strain 
through a clean cloth or drip bag (no 
pressure should be used), set away to 
cool and settle, and proceed the same as 
' with light-colored juice. Many people 
do not even go to the trouble of letting 
the juice settle after^ straining it, but re- 
heat and seal it up immediately, simply 
setting the vessel away in a cool place in 
an upright position where they will be 
undisturbed. The juice is thus allowed 
to settle, and when wanted for use the 
clear juice is simply taken off the sedi- 
ment. Any person familiar with the 
process of canning fruit can also preserve 
grape juice, for the principles involved 
are identical. , 
One of the leading defects so far found 
in unfermented juice is that much of it is 
not clear, a condition which very much 
detracts from its otherwise attractive ap- 
pearance, and due to two causes already 
alluded to. Either the final sterilization 
in bottles has been at a higher tempera- 
ture than the preceding one, or the juica 
has not been properly filtered or has not 
been filtered at all. In other cases Ug 
juice has been sterilized at such a nig 
temperature that it has a disagree*^ 
scorched taste. It should be remember** 
that attempts to sterilize at a temp 
ture above 195° F. are dangerous i sc i 
as the flavor of the finished product 
concerned. . »; in eS 

Another serious mistake is s^e" ^ 
made by putting the juice into botu« d 
large that mucTi of it becomes spo 
before it is used after the bottles 
opened. Unfermented frrape J«J <- e £ M 
erlv made and bottled will k^f ^ 
definitely, if it is not exposea 
atmosphere or mold germs; bui ^ 
bottle is once opened it ^^gsible 
canned goods, be used as soon as f 
to keep from spoiling. . . _ note 1 * 

Another method of J***- 1 JfteP re * " 
mcnted grape juice, which is 



WINES AND LIQUORS* 



767 



where a sufficiently large 
sorted to de at one time, consists in 



skid consisting of two scant- 
ceS of timber of perhaps 20 



tb> 5: , „ „T Pa n keg or barrel (one that 

JJ&fcSS*-' - i» 

this upon a ■ 

jjngs ol ■ I»ec *« c « ft mallllcr a s to make a 
feet long, i" takfi a su lphu r match, 
runway- . fc ips 0 f c i ea n muslin 
^^•KSfc and 10 inches long 
"Smelted brimstone, cool it and attach 
iat0 «ire of wire fastened in the lower 
it to a pi<- ce 




a u nd £rel bun£ the barrel up tight, and 
luow t fo burn as long as it will Re- 
daUaL until fresh sulphur matches will 
SoloDger bum in the barrel. 

Then take enough fresh grape juice 
in fill the barrel one-third full, bung 
m> tight, roll and agitate violently on 
the skid for a few minutes. Next burn 
more sulphur matches in it until no more 
will burn, fill in more juice until < the 
barrel is about two-thirds full; agitate 
and roll again. Repeat the -burning 
process as before, after which fill the 
barrel completely with grape juice and 
roll. The barrel should then be bunged 
tightly and stored in a cool place with 
the bung, up, and so secured that the 
package cannot be shaken. In the 
course of a few weeks the juice will have 
become clear and can then be racked off 
and filled into bottles or jars direct, 
sterilized, and corked or sealed up ready 
for use. By this method, however, unless 
skillfully handled, the juice is apt to 
have a slight taste of the sulphur. 

The following are the component parts 
of a California and a Concord unfer- 
mented grape juice: 



Solid contents 20 

{■otal acids (as tartaric). 

Volatile acids 

ljta.De Sucre 



[ tartar . 
This table 



Con- 


Cali- 


cord 


fornia 


Per 


Per 


Cent 


Cent 


20.37 


20.60 


.663 


.53 


.023 


.03 


18.54 


19.15 


.025 


.07 


.255 


.19 


.027 


.04 


.55 


.59 



the~ Calif * nteres ^ n S i n s0 iar . t bat 



? rma unfermented grape juice 
vaiipf 1 from Viniferas or foreign 
Libn ^bereaa the Concord was a 
The r^ff or one of tne American sorts, 
more i nce in taste and srael1 is eveD 
iadicat n ° Uncetl tllan tlle anal y sis would 



Small quantities of grape juice may be 
preserved m bottles. Fruit is likely to 
be dusty and to be soiled in other ways, 
and grapes like other fruits, should be 
well washed before using. Leaves or 
other extraneous matter should also be 
removed. The juice is obtained by 
moderate pressure in an ordinary screw 
press, and strained through felt. By 
gently heating, the albuminous matter is 
coagulated and may be skimmed off, and 
further clarification may be effected by 
faltering through paper, but such filtra- 
tion must be done as rapidly aa possible, 
using a number of filters and excluding 
Jie air as much as possible. 

The juice so obtained may be pre- 
served by sterilization, in the following 
manner: Put the juice in the bottles in 
which it is to be kept, filling them very 
nearly full; place the bottles, unstop- 
pered, in a kettle filled with cold water, 
so arranging them on a wooden per- 
forated "false bottom" or other like con- 
trivance as to prevent their immediate 
contact with the metal, this preventing 
unequal heating and possible fracture. 
Now heat the water, gradually raising 
the temperature to the boiling point and 
maintain at that until the juice attains a 
boiling temperature; then close the 
bottles with perfectly fitting corks, which 
have been kept immersed in boding 
water for a short time before use. , 

The corks should not be fastened m 
any way, for, if the sterilization is not 
complete, fermentation and consequent 
explosion of the bottle may occur unless 
the cork should be forced out. 

If the juice is to be used for sjrup,« 

finer flavor thus results, but its fceepmg 

but so far none * a J* ^^rf^ed en- 
this purpose which can be co , . 

xnente have ^™ ^ apparently with- 
for this purpose may d vy repe ated in- 

gasJc dlStU 

ance. 

SPARKLING WITES- 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



768 

bears several •^W^^"^^*^ 
are in connect on with each ot .be by 
' ~t Hi<5tn"hutin<T valves, tlie latter 

gloSe g S 1erve - P containers teogome 
Icid, and are kept s^PP 11 ^.^ 1 *^ g * 
from a cylinder connected therewith. 

The wine to be impregnated with the 
acid is taken from a cask through a 
fecial tube, which also , prod uces a Tight 
pressure of carbonic acid on the cm h the 
obiect of which is to prevent the access 
^atmospheric air to the wine within 
and, besides, to cause the liquid to pass 
into the bottle without jar or stroke 
The bottles stand under the distributing 
valves, or levers, placed above and below 
them. Now, if the cock, by means of 
which the glass bulbs and the bottles 
are brought into connection, is slightly 
opened, and the desired lever is put in 
fiction, the carbonic acid at once forces 
the air out of the bottles, and sterilizes 
them. The upper bottles are now gradu- 
ally filled. The whole apparatus, in- 
cluding the filled bottles, is now tilted 
over, and the wine, of its own weight, 
flows through collectors filled with car- 
bonic acid, and passes, impregnated with 
the gas, into other bottles placed below. 
Each bottle is filled in course, the time 
required for each being some 45 seconds. 
The saturation of the liquid with car- 
bonic acid is so complete and plentiful 
that there is no need of hurry in corking. 

By means of this apparatus any desired 
still wine is at once converted into a 
sparkling one, preserving at the same 
time its own peculiarities of taste, bou- 
quet, etc. The apparatus may be used 
equally well upon fruit juices, milk, and, 
in fact, any kind of liquid, its extreme 
simplicity permitting of easy and rapid 
cleansing. 

ARTIFICIAL FRENCH BRANDY. 

I- — The following is Eugene Dicterich's 
formula for Spiritus vim Gallici arti- 

Tincture of gall- 
apples,.... 10 parts 

5 parts 



5 parts 
10 parts 



Aromatic tincture. 
Purified wood vine- 

gar.. 

Spirit of nitrous ether 

Acetic ether 1 part 

Alcohol, 68 per cent. 570 parts 

^ Distilled water 400 parts 

Mix, adding the water last, let stand 
for several days, then filter. 

II.— -The M unchener A potheker Verein 
has adopted the following formula for the 
same thing: 



Acetic acid, dilute, 

90 per cent 4 parts 

Acetic ether . . . 4 parts 

Tincture aromatic . . 40 parts 

Cognac essence 40 parts 

Spirit of nitrous 

ether 20 parts 

Alcohol, 90 per cent. 5,000 parts 

Water, distilled 2,500 parts 

Add the acids, ethers, etc., to tru 
alcohol, and finally add the water. Le 
stand several days, and, if necessarj 
filter. 

III. — The Berlin Apothecaries havi 
adopted the following as a magistra 
formula: 

Aromatic tincture.. . 4 parts 
Spirit of nitrous 

ether 5 parts 

Alcohol, 00 per cent. 1,000 parts 
Distilled water, 
quantity sufficient 

to make 2,000 parts 

Mix the tincture and ether with t_ 
alcohol, add the water and for ever 
ounce add one drop of tincture 
rhatany. 

Of these formulas the first is to 
preferred as a close imitation of the tas 
of the genuine article. To imitate + 
color use burnt sugar. 

LIQUEURS. 

Many are familiar with the properties - 
liqueurs but believe them to be very com- 
plex and even mysterious compounds. 
This is, of course, due to the fact that 
the formulas are of foreign origin and 
many of them have been kept more or 
less secret for some time. Owing to ttie 
peculiar combination of the bouquet oils 
and flavors, it is impossible to make ac- 
curate analyses of them. But by the use. 
of formulas now given, these products 
seem to be very nearly duplicated. 

It is necessary to use the best sugar 
and oils obtainable in the preparation <» 
the liqueurs. As there are so many 
grades of essential oils on the market, 
it is difficult to obtain the best indirect^- 
The value of the cordials is enhanced m 
the richness and odor and flavor oi 
oils, so only the best qualities should w 
used. , Li e 

For filtering, flannel or felt is valui ^y- 
Flannel is cheaper and more eaw 
washed. It is necessary to return tt 
several times with any of tne u " 
media. j to 

As a clarifying agent talcun i a 
stand several days acts well. ■ 
are common to all. 



WINES AND LIQUORS 



ons are all simple: 

all mixtures. Second: 
Third: 



The operati 
F '- warm place 



% ce l vJncurs are heated to ripen the 
T K Cor! it having effect sim lar to 
b0U qiiet fl av ^^ t+ , lp RfQerea l oils, air and 

age 



if . orotect the ethereal oils, air and 
excluded; hence it is recora- 



^/TthTtheTo'ttTes be filled to the 



stopper. 



The liqueurs taste 



"'Mature not exceeding 55 
teffiP a lMmproved with age. 
nSny of tffbouquet oils. 
Benedictine.— 

j Bitter almonds.. 

Powdered nut- 
meg :• • 

Extract vanilla.. 
Powdered 



40 



best at a 
F. They 
especially 



grams 



4.500 grams 
120 grams 



2 grams 
2 grams 
.600 grams 
grams 
c.c. 



cloves. ....... 

Lemons, sliced.. 

True saffron 

Sugar 2,000 

Boiling milk.. . . 1,000 
Alcohol, 95 per 

cent S>000 c.c. 

Distilled water.. 2,500 c.c. 
Mix. Let stand 9 days with occasional 
agitation. Filter sufficiently. 

II. — Essence Bene- 
dictine • 75 c.c 

Alcohol, 95 per 
cent 1,700 c.c. 

Mix. 

Sugar 1,750 grams 

Water, distilled. 1,900 c.c. 
Mix together, when clear solution of 
sugar is obtained. Color with caramel. 
Filter sufficiently. 

Note.— This liqueur should be at least 
1 year old before used. 

Essence Benedictine for B6n6dictine 
No. U.__ 

I. — Myrrh 

Decorticated carda- 
mom 

Mace 

Ginger 



Extract aloe 

Alcohol . 
< Water 

macerate 10 d 

Extract licorice. 



1 


part 


1 


part 


1 


part 


10 


parts 


10 


parts 


10 


parts 


4 


parts 


160 


parts 


80 


parts" 


s and filter. 


. 20 


parts 


.200 


parts 


30 


parts 


. 1 


part 




12 parts 


. 1 


part 



769 

drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drop 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drops 
drop 
drop 



III. — Oil lemon 3 

Oil orange pe'eL*.! ! 3 

Oil wormwood 2,5 

Oil galanga ' tj* 

Oil ginger * 1 

Oil anise 

Oil cascarilla 15 

Oil bitter almond . , 12 

Oil milfoil 10 

Oil sassafras 7 

Oil angelica 6 

Oil hyssop 4 

Oil cardamom a 

Oil hops g 

Oil juniper 1 

Oil rosemary l 

Mix A, B, and C. 

Note. — This essence should stand is 
years before being used for liqueurs. 

Chartreuse. — I. — Elixir vegetal de ia 
Grande Chartreuse. 

Fresh balm mint 

herbs 64 parts 

Fresh hyssop herbs . . 64 parts 
Angelica herbs and 

root, fresh, together 32 parts 

Cinnamon 16 parts 

Saffron 4 parts 

Mace 4 parts 

Subject the above ingredients to 
maceration for a week with alcohol (96 
per cent), 1,000 parts, then squeeze off 
and distill the liquid obtained over a 
certain quantity of fresh herbs of balm 
and hyssop. After 125 parts of sugar 
have been added to the resultant liqueur, 

The genuine Chartreuse comes . m 
three different colors, viz., .green, white, 
and ye low The coloration, however 
is Q not y artificial > but is determmed by the 

l V ar n Tut 1- it 
herbs m the distillation, 
would require long an dt ed ions tr _ 
produce tie righ color >w 1 a sma ^ 

facture tle^Xrf saffron, and 
parted by a W^e tmc towg q{ a feW 
the green one by the aaum 
drops of indigo solution. 

^ j n-TTnpq Si ounces 

11 Eau des Cannes ^ quaft 

Alcohol. - ■ ■ ' " j q U art 

Distilled water j$ pounds 

fetf^v 1 ou r te r 



cool, strain add remain^ a8 
aredients, and niter, 
yellow Chartreuse. 



770 



WINES AND LIQUORS 




Curacao Liqueur.— 

!!Su lemon q... .... . « drops 

Oil bitter almond, q.s. ^ drops 
Oil curacoa orange. . . 15 parts 

Oil sweet orange ' !! 

Oil bitter orange. 
Cochineal. 



part 
part 



French brandy 50 parts 

B Alcohol 4^00 parts 

r ' c u „ ar 3,500 parts 

° Water* (distilled) 4,000 part S> 

Mix A, B, and C. Filter. Color with 
caramel. 

May Bowl or May Wine.— The prin- 
cipal ingredient of May bowl, or that 
which gives it its flavor and bouquet is 
fresh W aldmeisterkraut (Asperula odor- 
ata), the "woodruff" or "sweet grass, 
"star grass," and a dozen other aliases, 
of a plant growing wild all over Europe, 
both continental and insular, and cul- 
tivated by some gardeners in this country. 
It is accredited with being a diuretic, 
deobstruent and hepatic stimulant, of 
no mean order, though it has long been 
banished from the pharmacopoeia. 

In Baden and in Bavaria in preparing 
Maitranlc the practice was formerly to 
first make an essence — Maiirankessenz, 
for the preparation of which every house- 
wife had a formula of her own. The 
following was that generally used in the 
south of Germany; 

I. — Fresh, budding 

woodruff, cut fine 500 parts 
Alcohol, commer- 
cial (90 per cent). 1,000 parts 
Digest together for 14 days, then filter 
and press off. Many add to this some 
flavoring oil. As coumarin has been 
found to be the principle to which the 
Waldmeister owes its odor, many add to 
the above Tonka bean, chopped fine, 1 
part to the thousand. From about 12 to 
15 drachms of this essence is added to 
make a gallon of the wine, which has 
about the following formula: 

French brandy, say 4 drachms 
Oil of unripe 

oranges 80 drops 

£, u S ar 4 to 8 ounces 

^sence ig drachms 

Wine to make 1 gallon 

nJ I ;7~ T ^ e v ei , 10 , u ^ S° od woodruff 
{Waldmeister) of fine aroma and flavor. 
Kemove all parts that will not add to the 
excellence of the product, such as wilted, 
anrf °l ™P erfect ^aves, stems, etc., 
t a lr n S L Vr id Y e i hor °ughly in cold 
ShE* £ d Wlt , h as llttle P^ure as pos- 
sible. Now choose a flask with a neck 



sufficiently wide to receive the stems 
without pressing or bruising them and 
let the pieces fall into it. Pour £ 
sufficient strong alcohol (9G per cetU > .** 
cover the herbs completely. I n f rom 3 ~ 
to 40 minutes the entire aroma is taken 
up by the alcohol, which takes on 
beautiful green color, which, unfor- 
tunately, does not last, disappearing in a 
few days, but without affecting the aroma 
in the least. The alcohol should now be 
poured off, for if left to macerate longer 
while it would gain in aroma, it will also 
take up a certain bitter principle that 
detracts from the delicacy of flavor and 
aroma. The extract is now poured on a 
fresh quantity of the herb, and continue 
proceeding in this manner until a suffi- 
ciently concentrated extract is obtained 
tc give aroma to 100 times its weight of 
wine or cider. 

III.- — Fresh woodruff, in bloom or flower, 
is freed from the lower part of its stem 
and leaves, and also of all foreign or 
inert matter. The herb is then hghtly 
stuck into a wide-mouth bottle, and 
covered with strong alcohol. After 30 
minutes pour off the liquor on fresh 
woodruff. In another half hour the 
essence is ready, though it should not be 
used immediately. It should be kept at 
cellar heat (about 60° F.) for a few days, 
or until the green color vanishes. Any 
addition to the essence of aromatics, such 
as orange peel, lemons, spices, etc., is to 
be avoided. To prepare the Maitrank, 
add the essence to any good white wine, 
tasting and testing, until the flavor suits. 

The following are other formulas for 
the drink: 

IV. — Good white wine or 

cider 65 parts 

Alcohol, dilute SO parts 

Sugar 10 parts 

Maitrankessenz. .... 1 P ar ' 
Mix. 

Maraschino Liqueur. — 

Oil bitter almonds.. . . 15 minims 

Essence vanilla 1 dracnm 

Jasmine extract 2 drops 

Raspberry essence.. . . 10 drops 

Oilneroli 10 drops 

Oil lemon " STXJs 

Spirits nitrous ether . . 2 dra<*S>| 

Alcohol G P mt A s 

Sugar 8 P 0U "T 

Rose water 10 ounces 

Water sufficient to 

make 2 gallons 

Make a liquor in the usual manner. 
To Clarify Liqueurs.— For the c8 rf _ 
fication of turbid liqueurs, burm v 



WINES AND LIQUORS^WIRE ROPE 



, ,.. m fs frequently employed, 
dered , ;th g 0 0 parts of the dim 

Make a ^ ai wbLcil 1.5 parts of burnt 
liqueur, 1 . added; shake well and 
P owder H nntil the liquid is clear. Then 
f 5t n a t n and filter the l«t portion. If the 
de . C 't- a tureessFul, the whole stock may 
trial is. ? , ^1 - 



mer. 



35 grams 
35 c.c. 



1 c.c. 



Barified in this man 
MEDICINAL WINES: 

Beef and Iron.-The following formula 
■ Smmcnded by the American Phar- 
maceutical Association: 

t _Evtract of beef. . -- 

Tincture of citro- 
chloride of iron. . 

Compound spirit 
of orange 

Hot water 60 c.c. 

Alcohol c.c. 

Syrup..--. 125 c - c - 

Sherrv wine sum- 
dent to make.. , .1,000 c.c. 

Rub the extract of beef with the hot 
water, and add, while stirring, the 
alcohol. Allow to stand 3 days or more, 
then filter and distill off the alcohol. 
Add to the residue 750 cubic centimeters 
of the wine, to which the compound 
spirit of orange has been previously 
added. Finally add the tincture of citro- 
chloride of iron, syrup, and enough wine 
to make 1,000 cubic centimeters. Filter 
if nece.sary. 

II.— For Poultry and Stock.— A good 
formula for wine of beef and iron is as 
follows: 

Beef extract 256 grains 

Tincture of iron 

citro-chloride . ..256 minims 

Hot water 1 fluidounce 

Sherry wine enough 

to make 1 pint 

Pour the hot water in the beef extract 
and triturate until a smooth mixture is 
made. To this add, gradually and 
uader constant stirring, 12 ounces of the 
*ine. Add now, under same conditions, 
t«e iron, stir in well, and finally add the 
remainder of the wine. 

Cinchona. — I. — Macerate 100 parts of 
fV, «n na 3ucc irubra in coarse powder 
■wit ^utes in 100 parts of boiling 
r ' Strain off the liquor and set 
ton' i^ aceTa *e the residuum in 1,000 
R^«- California Malaga for 24 hours, 
C ° ff the 'iquid and set aside, 
of ni v , acerate the magma in 500 parts 



our, 
Wash the 



> M „ ~. , anc * se t aside. ntiau 
the X TO a water to recover ail 

^cohohe tincture; then unite ail the 
25 



771 

T q n U i? S ' In Stand for 24 h ours, ano filter 

co n uld g oe n a^ C ri ? he P«duSu3l?£{ 

i L iTrt t f ^ rated ™* of this, dissolv- 
^o-ammoniacal pyrophoa- 
phate of iron to e^ery 1,000 parts of wine. 

, II.— Y von recommends the follow! 
formula: 

Red cinchona, coarse 

powder 5parts 

Alcohol, 60 percent.. 10 parts 
Diluted hydrochloric 

acid 1 p ar t 

Bordeaux wine 100 parts 

Macerate the bark with the acid an 
alcohol for 6 days, shaking from time t 
time, add the wine, macerate for £ 
hours, agitating frequently, then filter. 

Removal of Musty Taste and Smel 
from Wine. — For the removal of thi, 
unpleasant quality, Kulisch recommend; 
the use of a piece of charcoal of about tin 
size of a hazel nut — -5 to 10 parts per 1,001 
parts of wine. After this lias remainei 
in the cask for 6 to 8 weeks, and durinj 
this time has been treated once a wee] 
with a chain or with a stirring rod, th 
wine can be racked off. Obstinate turbid 
ness, as well as stalk taste and pot flavoi 
can also be obviated by the use of th 
remedy. 



WIlfTERGREEN, TO DISTINGUIS 
METHYL SALICYLATE FROM O 

quires only a 8 W.C£. 9 a ma rked ri 
with the ^if^C^^ «™?» 

darker shades. 

WIRE ROPE. 

See also bteel. 

A valuable an*«cgon ^|ff 
tive compound for mm t&]Jow and 
follows: Se^en P^rts ? ro h]y . m - 
parts P^mbago, mi^u x , 
I long, hollow b ^ Xg about 2 fe 
a 4 by 6 P^.fiZZ: lengthwise a 
lone, sawing » °° trough enou 
Kfowjng out the box or S 
to hold several POun g lengthwlM of 

making a iSO 



trough for the cable to run through; then 
tr +« ™™> and clamp securely, having 
the bo/oAroigh so fixed that it cannot 
pla^ and r iett°inl the cable pass through 
ft /bile going up or down, so that w 
apt a thorough coating. Lais, n is iuuuu, 
wl l preTrvl a round cable very well, 
Zd can be used at least once a week 
For a flat steel cable raw linseed oil can 
be used instead of the tallow, in about the 
proportion of 6 parts oil and 3 pIumbMO 
ff tar is used, linseed oil is to be added to 
keep the tar from adhering, both in- 
gredients to be mixed while warm. 

To preserve wire rope laid under 
ground, or under water, coat it with a 
mixture of mineral tar and fresh slaked 
lime in the proportion of 1 bushel ot lime 
to 1 barrel of tar. The mixture is to be 
boiled, and the rope saturated with it 
while hot; sawdust is sometimes added 
to give the mixture body. Wire rope ex- 
posed to the weather is coated with raw 
Unseed oil, or with a paint composed of 
3 qnal parts of Spanish brown or lamp- 
lack with linseed oil. 

WIRE HARDENING: 

See Steel. 



WITCH-HAZEL JELLY: 

See Cosmetics. 

Wood 

DECORATIVE WOOD -FINISH. 

Paint or stencil wood with white-lime 
paint. When it has dried slowly in the 
shade, brush it off and a handsome dark- 
brown tone will be imparted to the oak- 
wood. Some portions which may be 
desired darker and redder are stained 
again with lime, whereby these places 
become deeper. It is essential that the 
lime be applied in even thickness and 
dried slowly, for only then the staining 
will be red and uniform. 

After the staining saturate the wood 
with a mixture of varnish, 2 parts; oil of 
turpentine, 1 part; turpentine, J part. 
When the oil ground is dry apply 2 
coatings of pale amber varnish. 

Colored decorations on pinewood can 
be produced as follows: 

The most difficult part of the work is 
to remove the rosin accumulations with- 
out causing a spot to appear. Burn out 
the places carefully with a red-hot iron, 
v^reat care is necessary to prevent the 
iron from setting the rosin on fire, thus 
causing black smoke clouds. 



The resulting holes are filled up -with, 
plaster to which a little light ochcr i 3 
added to imitate the shade of the wood 
as perfectly as possible. Plaster up n 0 
more than is necessary. 

Rub the wood down with very fi ne 
sandpaper, taking especial care to rub 
only with the grain of the wood, since all 
cross scratches will remain permanently 
visible. 

After this preliminary work cover the 
wood with a solution of white shellac, in 
order not to injure the handsome golden 
portions of the wood and to preserve the 
pure light tone of the wood in general. 

On this shellac ground paint and 
stencil with glazing colors, ground with 
isinglass solution. The smaller, more 
delicate portions, such as flowers and 
figures, are simply worked out in wash 
style with water colors, using the tone of 
the wood to remain as high lights, sur- 
rounding the whole with a black contour. 

After this treatment the panels and 
decorated parts are twice varnished with 
dammar varnish. The friezes and pilaster 
strips are glazed darker and set off with 
stripes; to varnish them use amber var- 
nish. 

The style just mentioned does not ex- 
clude any other. Thus, for instance, a 
very good effect is produced by decorat- 
ing the panels only with a black covering 
color or with black and transparent red 
(burnt sienna and a little carmine) after 
the fashion of boule work in rich orna- 
ments, in such a way that the natural 
wood forms the main part and yet quite 
a considerable portion of the ornament. 

Intarsia imitation is likewise well 
adapted, since the use of variegated cov- 
ering colors is in perfect keeping with 
the decoration of natural wood. How it 
should be applied, and how much of it, 
depends upon one's taste, as well as the 
purpose and kind of the object. 

It is a well-known fact that the large 
pores of oak always look rather smeary, 
according to whether the workshop is 
more or less dusty. If this is to be 
avoided, which is essential for neat worK, 
take good wheat starch, pound it nne 

means ot a 



polish 



with a hammer and stir by 
wooden spatula good stron 
the wheat starch to a paste ana ww« 
paste into the pores by passing it cros 
wise over the wood. After about j 
hour, rub down the wood thus trcatea i 
such a manner that the pores are n ' ^ 
In case any open pores remain, rep <^ 
the process as before. After that, 
down, polish or deaden. If this op j 
tion is not performed, the P ore ? j 
always look somewhat dirty, despn* 



WOOD 



TT3 



Fvery cabinetmaker will readily 
care- . th i s filling of the pores will 

P^tK and polish in the sub- 
S^uent finding 
«moD FILLERS. 

W , „,mVp in coach painting is quite 
The &° V1C V. _;irW P d .is to be aided 



ded 
out 



^ hB , fXtfet bewildered as to be ai< 
of the information given ab 
^ V the more so as the methods 
roughstut i, ii ■ Qne authority t ell s us 

differ l^rie proportion of lead ground 
^° nf w S coarser pigment, while 
lR oil Wl " dry lead and but a 

an °^^rcentag? and" still another in- 
"^tEneaTiust be tabooed alto- 
^ J There are withal a good many 
g et Lwn superstitions associated with 
r SS ;E r?ot the least of these is the 
^arkably absorbent nature which the 
S that has been roughstuffed and 
Soared'' is supposed to possess. By 
many this power of absorption is be- 
Heved to be equal to swallowing up, not 
only all the color applied, but at least 3 
c 0a ts of varnish, and none of these would 
think of applying a coat of color to a 
rouehstuffed surface without first giving 
it a coat of liquid filler as a sort . ot 
sacrificial oblation in recognition ot this 
absorbing propensity. Another authority 
on the subject has laid down the rule 
that ia the process of scouring, the block 
of pumice stone must always be moved 
in one direction, presumably for the 
reason that some trace of the stone is 
likely to be visible after the surface is 
finished. 

If the block of stone is scratching, per- 
haps the appearance of the finished panel 
may be less objectionable with the fur- 
rows in parallel lines than in what en- 
gravers call "cross-hatching,'' but if the 
rubbing is properly done it is not easy 
to discover what difference it could make 
whether the stone is moved in a straight 
hue or a circle. As to absorption, it can- 
not be distinguished in the finished 
Pa-nel between the surface that was 
coated with liquid filler and that to 
w «ich the color was applied directly, ex- 
cept that cracking always occurs much 
sooner in the former, and this will he 
lound to be the case with surfaces that 
gave ^ been coated with liquid filler and 
nmshed without roughstuff. Among the 
B eQts that ma y be used for rougb- 
ativ ' t there are half a dozeI1 or m0re> 
XhL • hlch ma y be used with success, 
"Pv^i- 18 , no doubt but that known as 
al» a l . £ ller " ™ best, but it is not 
contl 3 - to be had without delay and m- 
u ^yeiuences. 
letlow ocher, R eno umber and Key- 



?he Il oi 1 er r >f re - dl l UiUWe f ° r ^Ughstuff, 

for thf Vmg b l en U5ed man / y^rs 
ior the purpose, but, as already re- 
marked tie English filler is best ¥hi s is 

Shft i P? un ds filler, 1 pound ground 

white lead, 1 pmt gold size, lpint varnish 
and n pmts turpentine, or | pint good 
size and } pint boiled oil in l£ u of the 
varnish. In regard to the use of white 
lead ground m oil, it makes the rubbing 
more laborious, increases the liability to 
scratching, and requires a much longer 
time to harden before the scouring can 
be done, without in any appreciable man- 
ner improving the quality of the surface 
when finished. 

< It may be remarked here that the 
dition of white lead, whether ground ii 



oil or added dry to the eoarsef pigment 
increases the labor of scouring just ir 
proportion as it is used until sufficient 
may be used to render the scouring proc- 
ess impossible; hence, it follows that 
the mixing should be governed by the 
character of the job in hand. If the job 
is of a cheap class the use of very little 
or no lead at all is advisable, and the pro- 
portion of Japan and turpentine may also 
be increased, with the result that a. fairly 
good surface may be obtained with mucl 
less labor than in the formula given. < 

The number of coats of filler requirec 
to effect the purpose in any given cast 
must depend upon how well the buildej 
has done his part of the work. If he ho 
left the surface very uneven it lolloi 
as a matter of course, that . more coi 
will be required to make it level a 
more of the roughstuff wiU remain aft 

that has given pertec ■ ™ . hfi be 

generations ^^Vhandle^d a brusl 
coach pamters who ever" saj 

A well-known writer . on p 
that the effect of a varmsti 
tributed to the ^ner 
tion and the : quant y wlth ti 

for dieting thejelte^g^ 
prepared oils and W bile this ha 

use a in its ^a^do with the success 
undoubtedly mncb to arB othe 

fill application of va '5Jf"' that should r 
be overlooked. , rv \„^ fk bre&kmg ) 



,V overlooked. ^^breaking «I 



WOOD 



With the aid of the microscope in 
exam -ling the component parts ot wood 
fSSular tissue is observed which va 
in form according to the species and 
the Parts which are inspected. Hi 
Sllufar tissue is made up of small 
cavSes called pores or cells which are 
Ted with a widely diversified matter 
md arl covered with a hard and usually 
>rittle substance called hgnin. , 

This diversified matter consists of 
mineral salts and various organic sub- 
stances, gelatinous in their nature and held 
in solution by a viscous liquid and con- 
taining nitrogenous matter in different 
combinations, the whole being designated 
Dv the general name of albuminous sub- 
stances The older the wood the more 
iscous is the matter; while wood of 
recent growth (sapwood) contains less 
sdscous matter holding these substances 
in solution. This albumen m wood acts 
on substances like filler and varnish m 
one way or the other, good or bad. I he 
seasoning of wood does not dispose ot 
these substances. The water evaporates, 
leaving them adhering to the sides of the 
cells. The drier these substances are the 
less action they exert on the filler or what- 
ever substance is coated on the surface. 
If the filler disintegrates, it affects the 
varnish. 

All albuminous substances, be they dry 
or in liquid form, are subject, more or 
less, according to the protein they con- 
tain — which seems, or rather is, the es- 
sential principle of all albuminous matter 
-to the influence of caustic potash and 
soda. Thus, the albumen of an egg is 
exactly like that contained in the com- 
position of wood. As albumen in wood 
becomes solid by drying, it is easily dis- 
solved again, and will then be acted on 
chemically by any extraneous substance 
vith which it comes in contact. 

Some of the shellacs, substitutes for 
dhellacs, and some of the liquid fillers are 
manufactured from some of the following 
substances: Old linseed oil, old varnish, 
old and hard driers, turpentine, benzine, 
often gasoline, rosin, whiting, cornstarch 
flour, hulls, paint skins, silica, and so on. 
The list is long. To these must be 
added a large volume of potash, to bring 
it to and hold it in solution. There must 
be an excess of potash which is not com- 
bined into a chemical compound, which 
if it did, might mitigate its influence on 
the albumen of the wood, 
is potash in its pure state 
the solution it necessarily attacks the al 
bumen of the wood, causing disintegra- 
tion, which releases it from the wood, 
causing white, grayish flakes, and the 



But as there 
remaining in 



formation of a powder. This is not a con- 
elusion drawn from an inference but an 
established scientific fact resulting from 
experiments with fillers the various com- 
positions of which were known. All 
alkalies act on albumen. No one would 
knowingly varnish over a surface such 
as it would be were the white of an egg 
applied to it and then washed with an 
alkali solution; but that is just what is 
done when varnish is put over a wood 
surface filled with a filler which contains 
an alkali. 

Most of the combinations of material 
used in the painting trade are mixtures; 
that is, each part remains the same — • 
exerting the same chemical action on 
another substance, or any other sub- 
stance coming in contact with a paint 
mixture will exert the same chemical 
action on any part, or on any ingredient 
it contains, the same as if that part was 
by itself. 

We can now account for some of the 
numerous peculiarities of varnish. We 
know that any alkali when coming in con- 
tact with albumen forms a compound, 
which on drying is a white, brittle sub- 
stance easily "disintegrated. This is why 
potash, sal soda, and kindred substances 
will remove paint. The alkali attacks the 
albumen in the oil, softening it, causing 
easy removal, whereas if it were allowed 
to dry, the albumen in the oil would take 
on a grayish color quite brittle. Potash 
or other alkalies in filler not only attack 
the albumen in the wood, but also attack 
the albumen in the oil by forming a com- 
pound with it. Probably this compound 
is very slight, only forming a compound 
in part, enough, nevertheless, to start a 
destroying influence, which is demon- 
strated by the following results of experi- 
ments. The reader has, perhaps, some 
time in his career applied a rosin varnish 
over a potash filler and has been sur- 
prised by the good results, a more per- 
manent effect being obtained than in other 
instances where the best of varnish was 
used. This is accounted for by the rosw 
of the potash. Again, the reader may 
have had occasion to remove varnI ?J 
with potash and found that potash ™ ouI <J 
not touch it. This is because of its being 
a rosin varnish. Potash in filler may oe 
rendered somewhat inert, by reaSO p n .u f . 
its compounding with other parts of tn 
filler, but owing to the quantity, used "J 
some of the corninereia 1 fillers it is noj 
possible that all the alkali is renderea 
inert. Hence it will attack the alburaen 
wherever found, as all albumen is idea* 
tical in its chemical composition. 
Alkalies have but little effect on 



the 



WOOD 



775 



„t (Turns, because of their 
bi^r d.fXSen i~ the wood and 
Effect on ^ 'hoi varnishes or varnishes 
I f ft a 3 of heat stand well over 
tf* d< ; ^ filler Varnishes which contain 
a ]kah nlier weU _ ,j ^is 1S ac _ 



an ^ K 7«r e m to stand well, mis » 
l itt,e f i for bv 'the fact that alcohol ren- 
uote 1 t i ? 1 i en insoluble. Alkalies of all 



compounds 
effect 



oil has but little 



on which 

ect - wood contains less albn- 

itly does not take 
.„ accounts for the 
blv lasting longer than the 



?S3 filler, which 
^X a edonTno|en-gIai n edwQod 
»d wood contains pore sap 



same 



g£5££ir«^* there i. 



nlhnraento adhere to the sides of 

& The \nore albumen, the more 
KSfft ^ attacked by the potash and 
S more readily decomposed, or rather 

de Alc°ohoi renders albumen insoluble 
immediately on application It prevents 
Urom compounding with any other 
instance, or any other substance com- 
pounding with it. Hence, we must con- 
clude that an application of alcohol 
to wood before the filler is applied is 
valuable, which is proven to be a fact by 
experiment. Wash one half of a board 
with alcohol, then apply the potash idler 
over all. Again, wash the portion of the 
board on which is the filler and apply 
a heavy bodied oil varnish. Expose to 
sunlight and air the same as a finished 
door or the like, and wait for the result. 
At the end of a few months a vast differ- 
ence will be found in the two parts of the 
surface. The one on which there is no 
alcohol will show the ravages of time and 
the elements much sooner than the one 
on which it is. 

. Wood finishers demand a difference 
in the composition of fillers, paste and 
"quid, for open- and close-grained wood, 
respectively, but unfortunately they do 
»°t demand a difference between either 
k »m in themselves, according to the kind 
°f. wood. p as te fillers are used indis- 
criminately for open -grained wood and 
quid for close-grained wood. 

i o find the fillers best adapted for a 
grain wood, and to classify them m 
« respect will require a large amount 
to^V em , 1Cal work and practical experi- 
S s; but that it should be d 



number now on the market), they will 
not number nearly so many in the ag- 
gregate as might be supposed; as it will 
be found m many instances that two en- 
tirely different varieties of wood resemble 
each other more closely in their vascular 
formation and cell characteristics than 
do two other specimens of the same variety. 
It is a recognized fact that paste fillers 
whose base is starch or the like work 
better and give better results in certain in- 
stances, while those whose base is mineral 
matter seem to do better in other cases. 

It is noticed that rosewood as a finish- 
ing veneer is obsolete. This is not because 
of its scarcity, but because it is so hard 
to finish without having been seasoned 
for a long time. In these days, manu- 
facturers cannot wait. It takes longer 
for the sap of rosewood to become inac- 
tive, or in trade parlance to "die," than 
any other wood. This is because it takes 
so long for the albumen in the sap to 
coagulate. Rosewood has always been a 
source of trouble to piano makers, on 
account of the action of the sap on the 
varnish. However, if this wood, previ- 
ously to filling, was washed with a weak 
solution of phosphoric acid, and then 
with wood spirit, it might be more easily 
finished. The phosphoric acid would 
coagulate the albumen on the surface of 
the wood immediately, while alcohol 
would reduce it to an insoluble state. 
Tie idea here is to destroy the acuity 



fenced by the fact that both 
filt P i aUu T. e _ res uh from the use of 



of the sap, on the same pnnc *f » 
places and knotsapare destroyed hyalco 
W-shellac before Wng P^wlves th( 
Oak is another ™?™ hl £ h g™]Z 
painter trouble to finish • Th -a^ 
accounted for as toHowa. U a* 

sour acid pn^V^v ^ ood dur * 
It is a very active f^V; ins m0Te 

ing the S r< i win ? n X circulation of 

aloumen; thus in the org " is & 

sap a ^rge qufntoty of jot t ^ 
posited on the l|nm ^chn 

which ligrun, lf f pr c Pf 0 a £ ^he filler. Tannic 
acts on the materia! ot w some G f 
"eld has a dele^riouS a effect b O er ^ ^ 



one is 
success 
the same 



a 

the 

are made. ■ fl 11( >ncc. m^ lu & "K. — 

susceptible to its \ | k most other 

5 them q^n S tl e season when the hjg 
. -_u„^ r«nt at tne »™ . ^ more easuy 



is 



otZ T . difTer ent varieties of wood. After 
« being classified rowing to the large 



sap 

ii; 



doubt 



776 



WOOD 



var ; et y Circassi - and s B-w S 
^l^^eS 6 — 3 in finishing to 

g ^r. he onlVway'io find the best ma- 
The only way^ ^ . g ^ ^ 



terials to use in cemn d n view 

pLeVwood f n Xfp»d C tS 

on that anotner piece 
was successfully finished bv 
process, it may be regarded as 
treat both alike. If observation 



"aid of a microscope, a certain 
of wood shows the same cd 

safe to 
on this 

Hne "is "indulged in, it will not take the 
finisher very long to learn just what 
treatmen i/best for the work m hand. 
How often it has been noticed m some- 
thing of two parts, like a door, that the 
panels when finished will pit, run, or 
sa*?, while the sides will present a sur- 
face in every way desirable and wee 
versa. This is due to the difference m 
the ceLlular construction of the wood 
and to the cellulose, and cannot be 
otherwise for the parts have been seasoned 
the same time and treated^ exactly alike. 
The physiology of wood is imperfectly 
understood, but enough is known to 
warrant us in saying with a certainty 
that the chemicals in fillers do act upon 
the principles embodied in its formation. 

Some tried formulas follow: 
I. — Make a paste to fill the cracks as 
follows: Old furniture polish: Whiting, 
plaster of Paris, pumice stone, litharge, 
equal parts, Japan drier, boiled linseed 
oil, turpentine, coloring matter, of each a 
sufficient quantity. 

Rub the solids intimately with a mix- 
ture of 1 part of the Japan, 2 parts of the 
linseed oil, and 3 parts of turpentine, 
coloring to suit with Vandyke brown or 
sienna. Lay the filling on with a brush, 
let it set for about SO minutes, and then 
rub off clean except where it is to remain. 
In 2 days it will be hard enough to polish. 
After thesurface has been thus prepared, 
the application of a coat of first-class 
copal varnish is in order. It is recom- 
mended that the varnish be applied in a 
moderately warm room, as it is injured 
5T L eComing chiued bi drying. To get 
tne best results in varnishing, some skill 
and experience are required. The var- 
rnsn must be kept in an evenly warm 
S m ?K Ure ' an<1 P u t on neither too 
?aritf£S V 0r t0 °, ^ n ^r\j. After a 
satisfactorily smooth and regular surface 
nas been obtained, the polishing proper 

d °??- , This raa y be accomplished 
„L^ an ^ al W }° v and dexterity, or by the 

slfl fin 1Q ? ° f a Yery thin ' even fcoa t of a 
very Une, transparent varnish. 



If the hand-polishing method be p re 
ferred, it may be pursued by rubbina 
briskly and thoroughly with the follow, 
ing finishing polish: 

Alcohol 8 ounces 

Shellac. £ drachms 

Gum benzoin & drachma 

Best poppy oil 2 drachms 

Dissolve the shellac and gum in the 
alcohol in a warm place, with frequent 
agitation, and, when cold, add the poppy 
oil. This may be applied on the end of 
a cylindrical rubber made by tightly 
rolling a piece of flannel, which has been 
torn, not cut, into strips 4 to 6 inches 
wide. It should be borne in mind that 
the surface of the cabinet work of a 
piano is generally veneered, and this 
being so, necessitates _ the exercise of 
much skill and caution in polishing. 

II. — Prepare a paste from fine starch 
flour and a thick solution of brown 
shellac, -with the spatula upon a grinding 
stone, and rub the wooden object with 
this. After the drying, rub off with 
sandpaper and polish lightly with a rag 
moistened with a thin shellac solution 
and a few drops of oil. The ground thus 

firepared varnish once or twieeand a fine 
ustcr will be obtained. This method 
is well adapted for any wood with large 
pores, such as oak. 

Removal of Heat Stains from Polished 
Wood. — Fold a sheet of blotting paper a 
couple of times (making 4 thicknesses of 
the paper), cover the place with it, and 
put a hot smoothing iron thereon. Have 
ready at hand some bits of flannel, also 
folded and made quite hot. As soon as 
the iron has made the surface of the 
wood quite warm, remove the paper, 
etc., and go over the spot with a piece or 
parafSne, rubbing it hard enough to 
leave a coating of the substance. JNJ| 
with one of the hot pieces of flannel rtiP 
the injured surface. Continue the nuj 
bing, using freshly warmed cloths until 
the whiteness leaves the varnisii ox 
polish. The operation may have to ^ 
repeated. 

PRESERVATION OF WOOD. 

I.— An excellent way of P rcse , r ^f 
wood is to cut it between August « ■ 
October. The branches are revao^ 
leaving only the leaves at the top. ^Jf 
trunks, carefully cut or sawn ( s °™% &i M 
pores remain open), are mm'^ . . 
placed upright, with the I° wer fi P *JVil 
mersed in tanks three-quarters nlie m 
water, into which 3 or 4 ^nog^a 
powdered cupric sulphate per net. , 
introduced. The & 



WOOD 



777 



, n *t the extremity of each trunk 
tca ves left at to he ascent of the 

^fffmSnf Sf the .capillary force 
liquid by me of energy m the sap. 
and , 



w„nd which can be we 11 pre- 
II.r W ,°v be obtained by making a 
Vision in the bark of the trees 
circular ^c 1 ^ 1 before cutt ing them 
a ^^The woodcutters employed in 
doW ?' teak forests of Siarn have 

the iDiffl J se emp irical way a similar 
adopted in a furtive of 

process, Tl tree is Ved, making 

^ 00d 7 the trunk, at the height of 4 feet 
around the trun , d lar incision 8 

ab T Sde and 4 inches deep, at the 
iach6S w it in bloom and the sap 

"ometlnies the tree is left stancf- 
" fnr 3 years after this, operation. 
SLuently, also, a deep incision reach, 

heart is made on two opposite 

5 and tnen it takes sometimes only 

6 months to extract the sap. 

It fa probable that it IS partly m con- 
JSm of this method that the teak- 
wood acquires its exceptional resistance 
to various destructive agents. 

TTT— A good preservation of P^es, 
stakes and palisades is obtained by 
Svfng the wood in a bath of cupnc 
sulphate of 4° of the ordinary acidimeter 
for a time which may vary from S to ia 
days, according to greater or less dry- 
ness of the wood and its size. Atter 
they are half dried they are immersed m 
a bath of limewater; this forms with the 
sulphate an insoluble compound, pre- 
venting the rain from dissolving the 
sulphate which has penetrated the wood. 
This process is particularly uselul for vine 
props and the wood of white poplars. 

A good way to prevent the decay ot 
stakes would be to plant them upside 
to bury the upper ex- 
ranch in the ground. In 



stakes would be to plant thern upsiae 
down; that is, to bury the upper ex- 
tremity of the branch in the ground. In 
this way, the capillary tubes do not so 
easily absorb the moisture which is the 
cause of decay. It frequently happens 
that for one or another reason, the im- 
pregnation of -woods designed to be 
Planted in the ground, such as masts, 
P os ts, and supports has been neglected. 
Jt would he impracticable, after they are 
piaced > to take up these pieces in order to 
™at them with earbolineum or tar, 
especially if they are fixed in a wall, 
masonry, or other structure. Recourse 
*ust b e had tQ other means> Near the 

Point where the piece rises from the 
°& d . a hole about one centimeter in 
K V s m ade in a downward slanting 
J T ectiori ; filled with earbolineum, and 
with a wooden plug. 



It depends upon the consistency of the 
wood Whether the liquid will be absorbed 
in 1 or 2 days The hole is filled again 
for a week. The earbolineum replaces 
by degrees the water contained in the 
wood. When it is well impregnated, the 
hole is definitely closed with a plug of 
wood, which is sawn level with the open- 
ing. The wood will thus be preserved 
quite as well as if it had been previously 
coated with earbolineum. 

IV. — -Wooden objects remaining in the 
open air may be effectually protected 
against the inclemency of the weather by 
means of the following coating: Finely 
powdered zinc oxide :s worked into a 
paste with water and serves for white- 
washing walls, garden fences, benches, 
and other wooden objects. After dry- 
ing, probably at the end of 2 or 3 hours, 
the objects must be whitewashed again 
with a very dilute solution of zinc 
chloride in glue or water. _ Zinc oxide 
and zinc chloride form a brilliant, solid 
compound, which resists the inclemency 
of the weather. 

As a paint for boards, planks for cover- 
ing greenhouses, garden-frames, etc.. 
Inspector Lucas, of Reutlingen ( Wiirtem- 
bere), has recommended the following 
coating: Take fresh cement of. the best 
quality, which has been kept m a cool 
place/work it up with milk on a stone 
until it is of the consistency of od paint. 
The wood designed to receive it must not 
be smooth, but left rough after .sawing. 
Two or 8 coats are also a protection om 
fire. Wood to be tnus treated must t 
very dry. 

V.- Wood treated with ereosote res* 

teredo. Him, DeeLu, d la 

sote ri n ddt y, Ct 0 d absorbs it 
sound and dry. £ tration 1S com- 
the best In hr trie | ^ m oi 
plete, when the wooa compac t 
rapid growth, a^ 0 I h ^d of pressure 
grain. Besides, with tn creos0t 
ft is always PJ^^rf wood treated 

completely de*^ must remain ^ 
Tne prepa "d wo T 



The pr e P a " e i n „ths before use. 



£»• and «^ tt ^ « ^ 
m is 



„„» aR ure. on » CC .V,__„ vessels. 



VI.- 



778 



WOOD 



The sap is eliminated in this 
Tfaen the Receiver is filled w! & 
™Jn in solution with a hydrocarbide. 
The saturation takes place in two hours, 
when ?he liquid is allowed to run off, and 
Set of vapor is introduced, which carries 
off the soFvent, whole the rosin remains 
fn the pores of the wood, increasing its 
weight considerably, 

YH Wood can be well preserved by 

impregnating it with a solution of tannate 
oHerric protoxide. This method is due 
to Hazfeld. 

VIII — The Hasselmann process (xyl- 
olized wood), which consists in immers- 
ing the wood in a saline solution kept 
boiling under moderate pressure, the 
liquid containing copper and iron sul- 
phates (20 per cent of the hrst and SO 
per cent of the second), as well as 
aluminum and kainit, a substance until 
recently used only as a fertilizer, is now- 
much employed on the railways in Ger- 
many. 

IX. — Recently the discovery has been 
made that wood may be preserved with 
dissolved betuline, a vegetable product of 
the consistency of paste, called also 
birchwood rosin. Betuline must first be 
dissolved. It is procurable in the crude 
state at a low price. The wood is im- 
mersed for about 12 hours in the solu- 
tion, at a temperature of from 57° to 
60° P. 

After the first bath the wood is 
plunged into a second, formed of a solu- 
tion of pectic acid of 40° to 45° Be., 
and with a certain percentage of an 
alkaline carbonate — for instance, potas- 
sium carbonate of commerce — in the 
proportion of 1 part of carbonate to 
about 4 parts of the solution. The wood 
remains immersed in this composition 
for 12 hours; then it is taken out and 
drained from 8 to 15 hours, the time 
varying according to the nature of the 
wood and the temperature. In con- 
sequence of this second bath, the betulin 
which was introduced through the first 
immersion, is fixed in the interior of the 
mass. If it is desirable to make the 
wood more durable and to give it special 
qualities of density, hardness, and 
elasticity, it must be submitted to strong 
pressure In thus supplementing the 
chemical with mechanical treatment, the 
best results are obtained. 

L3*~ rA i i n ec f iv ? r of an y form or dimen- 
sions is filled with a fluid whose boiling 
point is above 21S1° F„ such as heavy tar 
oil saline solutions, etc. This is kept at 
^ T^ ate temperature varying be- 
tween 212° F. and the boiling point? the 



latter will not be reached, but if into thia 
liquid a piece of wood is plunged, an 
agitation analogous to boiling is mani- 
fested, produced by the water and sap 
contained in the pores of the wood. 
These, under the action of a temperature 
above 212° F., are dissolved into vapor 
and traverse the bath. 

If the wood is left immersed and a 
constant temperature maintained until 
every trace of agitation has disappeared, 
the water in the pores of the wood will 
be expelled, with the exception of a slight 
quantity, which, being in the form of 
vapor, represents only the seventeen- 
hundredth part of the original weight of 
the water contained; the air which was 
present in the pores having been likewise 
expelled. 

If the liquid is left to cool, this vapor is 
condensed, forming a vacuum, winch is 
immediately filled under the action of the 
atmospheric pressure. In this way the 
wood is completely saturated by the 
contents of the bath, whatever may be 
its form, proportions or condensation. 

To attain the desired effect it is not 
necessary to employ heavy oils. The 
latter have, however, the advantage of 
leaving on the surface of the prepared 
pieces a kind of varnish, which con- 
tributes to protect them against mold, 
worms, moisture, and dry rot. The 
same phenomenon of penetration is 
produced when, without letting the wood 
grow cold in the bath, it is taken out and 
plunged immediately into a cold bath of 
the same or of a different fluid. This 
point is important, because it is possible 
to employ as fluids to be absorbed 
matters having a boiling point below 
£12° F., and differing in this respect 
from the first bath, which must be com- 
posed of a liquid having a boiling point 
above 212° F. 

If, instead of a cold bath of a homo- 
geneous nature, two liquids of different 
density separated in two layers, are em- 
ployed, the wood can, with necessary 
precautions, be immersed successively 
in them, so that it can be penetrated 
with given quantities of each. Such 
liquids are heavy tar oil and a solution or 
zinc chloride of 2° to 4° Be. The hrst, 
which is denser, remains at the bottom 
of the vessel, and the second above. J 
the wood is first immersed in a salin 
solution, it penetrates deep into the pores, 
and when finally the heavy oil isabsorbea, 
the latter forms* a superficial layer, 
prevents the washing out of the saJ ', g 
solution" in the interior, as well as t 
penetration of moisture from the ° 
side. 




■ 



WOOD 



779 




bard oak- 



^waif Discovered that pieces 
of 212° F- 



e^"T » heavy tar oil for 4t hours 
in a bat fi to 7 per cent of their weight, 
lost fr« m V b water and albuminous 
^nresenteu j ^ they absorbed m 

substances , c bloride enough to 

he D a Sen an increase of from 3 to 3 per 
reP f nn their natural original weight. 

oV wood in question had been cut 
f^orUan a year and was of a density 



?lfW\ U in ^cted. After this process 
the timber is placed in another c?lbder 
where a solution of milk of lim( 



,„. the absorption of antiseptic 
ftd wi nout any deformation of the 
SSftuS elements of the wood, the 
as the operation is performed 
vessels. Another 



more 



open 



Idrantage is'the^greater resistance of the 
to warping and bending, and to the 
extraction of metallic pieces, such as 
nails, cramp irons, etc. 

XlL— In the Kyanizing process sea- 
soned timber is soaked in a solution of 
bichloride of mercury (corrosive sub- 
limate) which coagulates the albumen. 
The solution is very poisonous and cor- 
rodes iron and steel, hence is unsuited 
for structural purposes in which metallic 
fastenings are used. The process is 
effective, but dangerous to the health of 
tie workers employed. 

XI1L— The Wellhouse process also 
uses zinc chloride, but adds a small per- 
centage of glue. After the timber has 
been treated under pressure the zinc chlo- 
ride solution is drawn off and one of 
tannin is substituted. The tannin com- 
bines with the glue and forms an insolu- 
ble substance that effectually seals the 
pores. 

XIV.-— The Allardyce process makes 
use of zinc chloride and dead oil of tar, 
the latter being applied last, and the 
fanner of application being essentially 
«e same for both as explained in the 
™er processes. 

^ ^•7~The timber is boiled in a solu- 
t>W °I cc W er ' iron, and aluminum sul- 
a added Ch a Sma11 ^ anth y of kahlit 



plied at a temperaturTol SoM? 

^ P ° Unds P« aq™« inch 
AVIi. — -The vulcanizing process r.f 
treating timber consists essertS v in 
subjecting it to a baking process i/hot 

about Sn« t0 a . tBm P«*ture of 

about 600 F. by passing over steam 
coils. I he heat coagulates the albumen, 
expels the water from the cells, kills the 
organisms therein, and seals the cells by 
transforming the sap into a preservative 
compound. This method is used with' 
success by the elevated railway systems 
of several cities. 

XVIII. — A durable coating for wood 
is obtained by extracting petroleum 
asphalt, with lig^ht petroleum, benzine, 
or gasoline. lor this purpose the 
asphalt, coarsely powdered, is digested 
for I to 2 days with benzine in well- 
closed vessels, at a moderately warm 
spot. Petroleum asphalt results when 
the distillation of petroleum continued 
until a glossy, firm, pulverizable mass 
of conchoidal fracture and resembling 
colophony in consistency remains. Th 
benzine dissolves from this asphalt onl 
a yellowish-brown dyestuff, which deep! 
enters the wood and protects it from th 
action of the weather, worms, dry rot, 
etc. The paint is not opaque, hence the 
wood retains its natural fiber. It is very 
pleasant to look at, because the woo 
treated with it keeps its natural appear 
ance The wood can be washed all with 
soap; and is especially suited for country 
and summer houses. 

fre neither ^nyMSt" 
there were any, »^ldu^ rf 

carbolmeum. J^/f^eed 1.105, an 
carbolineum should ^eea > 



t7 T>y 

tb e ti T vT^ tne creo " rosinate process 
, "aiber i s fi rst su bj ec ted to a steani- 

taoi s t u OCe?S at 200 ° F - to evaporate the 
tt *n „ he . ce!ls '- the temperature is 

apressur Ua y mcreas ed to 320° F. and 
The 0rp e of 80 pounds per square inch, 
inches v ls slowl Y reduced to 26 

dead oil [ w Um > and then a solution of 
01 tar, melted rosin, and formal- 



lutely re"ea f coa i. ta r o 

thoroughly 95 pounds ot^ ^ 

and 5 pounds *,Sher 3° P ounds ? 
b . Amalgamate together P of j 

k» n w coal-tar oi , <> u P w of hear 



mix 
and 



poun 
alg 

heavy co 
wood-tar oilman 
rosin oil. c ' 



d' 9.5 pounds of 
Mix thoroughly 3 poun 
ds of heavy cod-tar 



dso 
oil 



't^O'ten the ^jMn ^U 



on s o 
nes 



WOOD 



j Up. found useful for 

in an iron vessel, and add 1U.UUU 
LTof tar, and 500 parts of sulphur 
nlor with brown ocher or any other 
dorin? matter diluted with hawed ■ ad. 
-Llfi a first liffht application of this mix- 
re whik ^ warm, and after drying apply 
Second coat. 

yyt For enameling vats, etc., 1,000 

parts of brown shellac and 125 parts of 
colophony are melted in a spacious kettle 
After the mass has cooled somewhat, but 
^ Si thinly liquid, 61 parts of alcoho^ 
(90 per cent) is gradually added. In 
order to prevent the ignition of the spirit 
aP or, the admixture of spirit is made at 
a distance from the stove. By this ad- 
dition the shellac swells up into a semi- 
liquid mass, and a larger amount of en- 
amel is obtained than by dissolving it 
old. The enamel may be used lor 
wood or iron. , , 

The wood must be well dried; only 
then will the enamel penetrate into the 
pores. Two or three coats suffice to close 
up the pores of the wood thoroughly and 
to render the surface smooth and glossy. 
Each coating will harden perfectly in 
several hours. The covering endures a 
heat of 140° to 150° F. without injury. 
This glaze can also be mixed with earth 
colors. Drying quickly and being taste- 
less, its applications" are manifold. 
Mixed willi ocher, for instance, it gives 
an elegant and durable floor varnish, 
which may safely be washed off with 
weak soda solution. If it is not essen- 
tial that the objects be provided with a 
smooth and glossy coating, only a 
preservation being aimed at the follow- 
ing coat is recommended by the same 
source: Thin, soluble glass (water glass) 
as it is found in commerce, with about 
24 per cent of water, and paint the dry 
vessel rather hot with this solution. 
When this has been absorbed, repeat the 
application, allow to dry, and coat with a 
solution of about 1 part of sodium bi- 
carbonate in 8 parts of water. In this 
coating silicic acid is separated by the 
carbonic acid of the bicarbonate; from 
the water glass (sodium silicate) ab- 
sorbed by the pores of the wood, which, 
as it were, silicifiea the wooden surfaces, 
rendering them resistive against the 
penetration of liquids. The advantages 
claimed for both processes are increased 
durability and facilitated cleaning. 

XXII, — Tar paints, called also mineral 
or metallic paints, are sold in barrels or 
boxes, at varying prices. Some dealers 
color them — yellow ocher, red ocher, 



brown, gray, etc. They are prepared by 
mixing equal parts of coal tar and oil of 
turpentine or mineral essence (gasoline). 
The product, if it is not colored arti- 
ficially, is of a brilliant black, even when 
cold. It dries in a few hours, especially 
when prepared with oil 'of turpentine. 
The paints with mineral essence are, 
however, generally preferred, on account 
of their lower cost. Either should be 
spread on with a hard brush, in coats as 
thin as possible. They penetrate soft 
woods, and even semi-hard woods 
sufficiently deep, and preserve them 
completely. They adhere perfectly to 
metals. Their employment can, there- 
fore, be confidently advised, so far as 
concerns the preservation directly of iron 
cables, reservoirs, the interior surface of 
generators, etc. However, it has been 
shown that atmospheric influence or 
variations of temperature cause the 
formation of amnioniacal solutions, 
which corrode the metals. Several com- 
panies for the care and insurance of 
steam engines have for some time 
recommended the abandonment of tar 
products for applications of this kind 
and the substitution of hot linseed oil. 

XXIII. — Coal-tar paints are prepared 
according to various formulas. One m 
current use has coal tar for a base, with 
the addition of gum rosin. It is very 
black. Two thin coats give a tine 
brilliancy. It is employed on metals, 
iron, sheet iron, etc., as well as on wood. 
It. dries much quicker than the tars 
used separately. Its preserving influence 
against rust is very strong. 

The following Tissandier formula has 
afforded excellent results. Its facility ot 
preparation and its low cost are among 
its advantages. Mix 10 parts of coal tar, 
1 to 1.6 parts of slaked lime, 4,000 parlsot 
oil of turpentine, and 400 parts ot strong 
vinegar, in which 1 part of cupric sul- 
phate has been previously boiled. J-l 
addition of S or 3 cloves of garlic in U| 
solution of cupric sulphate aids in pro- 
ducing a varnish, brilliant as wen m 
permanent. _ The compound can be coi 
ored like ordinary paints. 

XXIV. — Rectified rosinous oil JA 
painting must not be confounded 
oils used in the preparation of lubric :a j 
for metallic surfaces exposed to ' tr] ^ ; „ 
It contains a certain quantity ot r0! L o e9 
solution, which, on drying, nil 3 tnc f , 
of the wood completely, and P reventS irU3 
composition from the action ot var > 
saprophytic fungi It is well adap te£ ^ 
the preservation of pieces to be bun 
the ground or exposed to the mclemen / 



WOOD 



781 



Paints can also be pre- 




of oil. 
uite a 



in order to 



while shaking, 

homogeneous mixture, 
obtain V+his kind are economical, in 
paints ot i ^ JqW price D f ros i n , 
consequen ^ uged in the i Iller ior of 
but they cann^^ ^ ^ strong and 

dwelling* . odor d i 5enffag ed, even a 
d lS agretau application. As an 

W '^efan be used like tar and 
for .tails, stables, etc. 

Tn prevent Warping.— Immerse th.3 
A to be worked upon in a con- 
rntrated solution of sea salt for a week 
T2 The wood thus prepared, .after 
££, been worked upon, will resist all 
changes of temperature. 

STAINS FOR WOOD. 

In the staining of wood it is not enough 
to know merely how to prepare and how 
to apply the various staiamg solutions; a 
rational exercise of the art of wood stain- 
ing demands rather a certain acquaint- 
ance with the varieties of wood to be 
operated upon, a knowledge of their 
separate relations to the individual stains 
themselves; for with one and the same 
stain very different effects are obtained 
when applied to the varying species of 
wood. 

Such a diversity of effects arises from 
the varying chemical composition of 
wood. No unimportant role is played by 
the presence in greater or lesser quan- 
tities of tannin, which acts chemically 
upon many of the stains and forms with 
them various colored varnishes in the 
fibers. Two examples will suffice to 
aiake this clear. (1) Let us take pine or 
nr, in which but little of the tanning 
principle is found, and stain it with a 
solution of 50 parts of potassium chro- 
aate m 1,000 parts of pure water; the 
result will be a plain pale yellow color, 
^responding with the potassium chro- 
jaate, which is not fast and as a con- 
3 en <* is of no value. If, with the 
oaV • utlon . on the contrary, we stain 
Verv m u Wllictl tne tanning principle is 
y J a .°nndant, we obtain a beautiful 
of *rtl stl -brown color which is capable 
and S audin g the effects of both light 
th e o I Some time : for the tannin of 
PotasI" 00tnbm es with the penetrating 
dyeshifi L e hromate to form a brown 
Celk \ ' w . hl ?h deposits in the woody 
in s ] muar procedure occurs in the 
U B ot mahogany and walnut with 



the chromate because these varieties of 
wo .°j a £ e very rich in tannin. 

(B) lake some of the same pine or fir 
Jm r I T *J ™ tk * Solutioa of 20 Parts of 

an<? thl^ lf l? V n 1 '° 00 P arts °* ™ ter 
and there will be no perceptible color. 

Apply this stain, however, to the oak and 
we get a beautiful light gray, and if the 
stain be painted with a brush on the 
smoother paken board, in a short time a 
strong bluish-gray tint will appear. This 
effect of the stain is the result of the 
combination of the green vitriol with the 
tannin; the more tannin present, the 
darker the stain becomes. The hard- 
ness or density of the wood, too, exerts a 
marked influence upon the resulting 
stain. In a soft wood, having large 
pores, the stain not only sinks further in, 
but much more of it is required than in a 
hard dense wood; hence in the first place 
a stronger, greasier stain will be obtained 
with the same solution than in the latter. 

Prom this we learn that in soft woods 
it is more advisable to use a thinner stain 
to arrive at a certain tone; while th 
solution may be made thicker or stronge 
for hard woods. 

The same formula or the same stain- 
ing solution cannot be relied upon to 
give the same results at all times even 
when applied to the same kinds of wood. 
A greater or lesser amount of rosm or 
sap in the wood at the time the tree l 
felled, will offer more or less resistance t 
the permeating tendencies of the stain, 
so that the color may be at one Urn 
much lighter, at another darker. Mue 
after the same manner we find tnat 

"WSU dspeud-pouthe a,eo 



cell 
Btain 



upon 



the tree as well as 

c'olfrTf-the wood ^"^hl 
in examples of thewme species* 
particularly id- 
ealise an ^°^} n fHe? Because 
tion of the final color tone. t , 

this diversification ^ t0 \y 
different species of J ooa 

P» P Sl!Ff™SSbf Always, an{atj 



se 



it fs almost imposs^ 



c , ..„.„.„ . certain pr 
first attempt, to maw* 
determined color. ftt ta , nm 

It is desirable tnai pieces 
should first be -f^fa* &* objj 
board from the g^^J ult8 of such * 
to be gained the re _ co 

periments lU / nl „ t h „nd composition 
?erning.the ^ P^ e ^ a 

the stam to J>e empi ^ cribed eolo 
reproduction oi 



WOOD 



judge? the case when stain is 

Specially is Jis t develops under 

T P Tfnn of the air or when the dye- 
IV^netriteronly slowly into the 
stuff penet gucJi cageg ^ e 

S3 o° the fining may ^ only be , fug 
and completely appreciated after the 
lnnse of 24 or 48 hours. 

P Wood that has been stained should 
aWsbe allowed 24 or 48 hours to dry 
in ordinary temperatures,, before a coat 
3 varnishfpolisfi, or wax is applied. If 
anv dampness be left in the wood this 
will make itself apparent upon the 
varnish or polish, ft will become dull 
lose its glossy appearance, and exhibit 
white spots which can only be removed 
with difficulty. If a certain effect de- 
mand the application of two or more 
stains one upon the other this may only 
be done by affording each distinct coat 
time to dry, which requires at least 24 

hours. , . 1 „ 

Not all the dyes, which are applicable 
to wood staining, can be profitably used 
together, either when separately applied 
or mixed. This injunction is to be care- 
fully noted in the application of coal tar 
or aniline colors. 

Among the aniline dyes suitable for 
staining woods are two groups — the so- 
called acid dyes and the basic dyes. If 
a solution of an acid dye be mixed with a 
basic dye the effect of their antagonistic 
dispositions is shown in the clouding up 
of the stain, a fine precipitate is visible 
and often a rosin-like separation is 
noticeable. 

It is needless to say that such a stain- 
ing solution is useless for any practical 
purpose. It cannot penetrate the wood 
fibers and would present but an un- 
seemly and for the most part a flaky 
appearance. In preparing the stains it 
is therefore of the greatest importance 
that they remain lastingly clear. It 
would be considerably of advantage, 
before mixing aniline solutions of which 
the acid or basic characteristics are un- 
known, to make a test on a small scale in 
vl champagne glass and after standing a 
short time carefully examine the solu- 
tion^ if it has become cloudy or want- 
ing in transparency it is a sign that a 
separation of the coloring matter has 
taken place. 

The mixing of acid or basic dyestuffs 
even m dry powdered form is attended 
wiui the same disadvantages as in the 
thev * 0t s ° lu b'hty,_ for just as soon as 
tney are dissolved m water the reactions 



commence and the natural process of 
precipitation takes place with all its 
attending disagreeable consequences. 

COLOR STAINS: 

Bronze.— I. — Prepare first a thin glue 
size by soaking good animal glue over 
night in cold water and melting it next 
morning in the usual water bath. Strain, 
it, before using, through old linen or 
cheese cloth into a clean vessel. Sand- 
paper smooth and dust the articles, then, 
apply with a soft bristle brush 2 or 3 
coats of the size, allowing sufficient time 
for each coat to harden before applying 
the next. Now, a ground coat made by 
thoroughly mixing finely bolted gilders' 
whiting and glue size is applied, and 
when this has become hard it is rubbed 
to a smooth, even surface with selected 
fine pumice, and then given _ 1 coat of 
thin copal varnish. When this is nearly 
but not quite dry, the bronz-j powder is 
applied with a suitable brush or wad of 
cotton, and when dry the surplus bronze 
is removed with the same tool. If col- 
lected on clean paper, the dusted-off 
bronze powder may be used again, 

II. — Diluted water-glass solution 
makes a good ground for bronze. 
Bronze powder is sprinkled on from a 
wide-necked glass tied up with gauze, 
and the excess removed by gently knock- 
ing. The bronze powder adheres so 
firmly after drying that a polish may be 
put on by means of an agate. The 
process is especially useful for repairing 
worn-off picture frames, book ornamen- 
tations, etc. The foil owing bronze ground 
also yields good results: Boil 11,000 
parts of linseed oil with 25 parts of im- 
pure zinc carbonate, 100 parts of red 
lead, 25 parts of litharge, and 0.3 parts ot 
mercuric chloride, until a drop taken out 
will stand like a pea upon a glass surface. 
Before complete cooling, the mass is 
diluted with oil of turpentine to a tnics 
syrup. 

Ebony Stains. — I. — To 1 pint of boil- 
ing water add f ounce of copperas &m 
1 ounce logwood chips. Apply m , 
the wood hot. When the surface 
dried thoroughly wet it with a sol utw 
composed of 7 ounces steel filings 
solved in J pint of vinegar. 

II— Give the wood several app^ - 
tions of a stout decoction ot mg of 
chips, finishing off with a tree SH**^ 
vinegar in which rusty nails ha^e 

d 



for some time submerged 

III. — In 1 qua 
of logwood chips 



IH,_In 1 quart of water boil } poj.^ 



ot watex u"" * Jding 
oi logwooa cuips, subsequent!)' .^ ture 
i ounce pearl ash, applying the m - 




WOOD 



783 



«-l n fl «aiu boa the same quantity 
hot Th ?\n the same quantity of water, 
of Iog^f^nce of verdigris and i ounce 
adding i °" after which strain and put 
o^°P P ^d of rSty steel filings. With 
biP^ 1 mixture coat the. work and, 
this fetter m n(>t be sufficient ly black, 
sho«W the applicatiou . 
reP it- Tuster— A valuable process 
Me rt the luster of metal to ordinary 
t0 Without injuring its natural quali- 
wood, w f"n oWS - The wood is laid, ac- 
tieS ^n S a to its weight, for 3 or 4 days in a 
cord " S Skalinc solution, such as, for 
^ nee of calcined soda, at a tempera- 
instance, w it w at once pi ace d 

• Ure °Lth of 'calcium hydrosulphite to 
L \ f vT After 24 to 36 hours, a saturated 
w hich, alter caust ie potash is 

S 1 U T In this m xture the wood is left 
? 0 f 4 S hours at 100° to 120° P. The 
wood thus prepared, after having been 
ltd at a moderate temperature, is 
Shed by means of a smoothing iron, 
S the surface assumes a very haiid- 
ToL Metallic luster. The effect of this 
metallic gloss is still more pleasing if the 
wood is rubbed with a piece of lead zmc, 
or tin If it is subsequently polished 
with a burnisher of glass of porcelain, 
the wood gains the brdhancy of a 
metallic mirror. 

Nutwood.— One part permanganate of 
potassium is dissolved m 30 parts clear 
water; with this the wood to be stained is 
coated twice. After an action of 5 
minutes, rinse off with water, dry, oil, 
and polish. It is best to prepare a fresn 
solution each time. 

Oak. — I. — Water-color stains do not 
penetrate deep enough into wood to 
make the effect strong enough, hence 
solutions of other material than color are 
being employed for the purpose. Aqua 
ammonia alone, applied with a rag or 
hrush repeatedly, will darken the color 
of oak to a weathered effect, but it is not 
jery desirable, because of its tendency 
«> raise the grain. Bichromate of potash, 
dissolved in cold water, applied in a like 
fanner, until the desired depth is ob- 
^ ltl f d ' viu serv c the purpose. These 
washes or solutions, however, do not give 
JJ e dark, almost black, effect that is at 
"« present time expected for weathered 
J?*' and in order to produce this, 4 
of logwood chips and 3 ounces of 
K t n C0 PPeras should be boiled together 
a * Hearts of water for 40 minutes and 
&!ft tlon a PPhed hot. "When this has 

mifU« ou,d be g° ne ovcr with a 
Din? J rom 4 ou nces steel filings and 1 
* ux ot strong vinegar. The steel filings 



are previously put into the vinegar and 
allowed to stand for several daya This 
will penetrate into the wood deeply, and 
the stain will be permanent. Picture- 
frame manufacturers use a quick-drvine 
stam, made from aniline blacks. 

II.— Dissolve J part of permanganate 
ot potassium m 1,000 parts of cold water 
and paint the wood with the violet solu- 
tion obtained. As soon as the solution 
comes in contact with the wood it de- 
composes in consequence of chemical 
action, and a handsome light -brown 
precipitate is produced in the wood. 
The brushes used must be washed out 
immediately, as the permanganate of 
potassium destroys animal bristles, but 
it is preferable to use sponges or brushes 
of glass threads for staining. Boil 2 

Earts of cutch in 6 parts of water for 1 
our, stir while boiling, so that the 
rosiniferous catechu cannot burn on the 
bottom of the vessel; strain the liquid as 
soon as the cutch is dissolved, through 
linen, and bring again to a boil. Now 
dissolve therein £ part of alum, free from 
iron; apply the stain while hot, and cover 
after the drying, with a solution of 
part of bichromate of potassium in % 
parts of water. 

Rosewoood.— First procure \ poun 
logwood, boiling it in 3 pints water 
Continue the boilinfl untif the hqui 
assumes a very darl color at win 
point add 1 ounce salt of tartar. Whe 
at the boiling point stam your wood wi 
for I coats.Vut not in quick 
B * the latest coat must be nearly ar 
before the succeeding . one is apphe^ 



[cceeumg ™ r r S»f+l 

Stion of dark rosewood. 

Saver Gratis \ 
dissolving 1 part c* py«* d wood 

parts of » B ™. W Sov this coating, t 
coated with this. Jf^^ a solutio 
dry and prepare, m^Ji - ts 0 
of \ parts of green vitr ml i £ 

gray shade. ^ solution of 

Walnut. — ^f^.^f Permanganate 
ounces of a ^f^jLlTS sufphate 
potassium, and C u ^ water. ^ 
maffnesia m 2 q ua r f * t he wood with . 

stained, a very 



WOOD 



thp above description, then 
according to the above d kft 

t he yrpo^npie^B^ aCCOrd ing to 

a Tighter or darker coloring is 

^T-One hundredweight Vandyke 
ll ' — j fl nP in water, and 2s 

brown, ground fine ■ ^ J a h » ot water> 

P oun Vd^£fc^ are hot in a 

are mixed while tn mixture JS tne n 

revolving mixer, x 
dried in sheet-iron trays. 

Yellow.— The wood is coated with a 
^nt concentrated solution of picric acid, 
dried and polished. (Picric acid is pox- 
sonous.) 

IMITATION STAINS. 

Yellow, green, blue, or gray staining 
on wood cfn be easily imitated with a 
little glazing color m oil or vinegar, 
which" will* prove better, and more 
permanent than the staining. If the 
pores of the wood are opened by a Lye 
or a salt, almost any diluted color can be 
worked into it. With most stains the 
surface is thus prepared previously. 

Light-Fast Stains. — Stains fast to 
light are obtained by saturating wood in 
a vacuum chamber, first with dilute sul- 
phuric acid, then with dilute alkali to 
neutralize the acid, and finally with a 
solution with or without the addition of 
a mordant. The action of the acid is 
to increase the affinity of the wood for 
dye very materially. As wood consists 
largely of cellulose, mercerization, which 
always increases the affinity of that sub- 
stance for dyes, may be caused to some 
extent by the acid. 

SPIRIT STAINS: 
Black. — 

I- — White shellac IS ounces 

Vegetable black 6 ounces 

Methylated spirit, ... 3 pints 

II. — Lampblack 1 pound 

Ground iron scale. ... 5 pounds 
Vinegar l gallon 

Mahogany Brown. — Put into a vessel, 
say 4 pounds of bichromate of potash, 
and as many ounces of burnt umber, let 
it stand a day or two, then strain or lawn 
for use. 

Vandyke Brown. — 

Spirit of wine 2 pints 

Burnt umber 3 ounces 

Vandyke brown color 1 ounce 
^arbonate of soda. . . 1 ounce 
Jounce 



a 

■Pply 



Mahogany. — Rub the wood with 
solution of nitrous acid, and then api 
with a brush the following: 

I. — Dragon's blood 1 ounce 

Sodium carbonate . .. 6 drachms 

Alcohol 20 ounces 

Filter just before use. 
II. — Rub the wood with a solution 0 f 
potassium carbonate, 1 drachm to a pint 
of water, and then apply a dye made by 
boiling together: 

Madder.... 2 ounces 

Logwood chips jounce 

Water 1 quart 

Maple. — 

I. — Pale button lac 3 pounds 

Bismarck brown.. . . | ounce 
Vandyke brown. ... $ ounce 

Gamboge 4 ounces 

Methylated spirit. . . 1 gallon 

II, — Use 1 gallon of methylated spirit, 
4 ounces gamboge (powdered), $ ounce 
Vandyke brown, 1 drachm Bismarck 
brown, 3 pounds shellac. 

Maroon. — To produce a rich maroon 
or ruby, steep red landers wood in 
rectified naphtha and stir into the solu- 
tion a little cochineal; strain or lawn 
for use. 

Turpentine Stains. — Turpentine stains 
are chiefly solutions of oil-soluble coab 
tar dyes in turpentine oil, with small 
quantities of wax also in solution. Ihey 
do not roughen the wood, making a final 
polishing unnecessary. They enter the 
wood slowly, so that an even stain, 
especially on large surfaces, is secured. 
The disadvantages of turpentine stains 
are the lack of permanence of the color- 
ing, when exposed to light and air, ana 
their high price. 

Varnish Stains.— Shellac is the chief 
article forming the basis of varnish stains 
the coloring matter being usually cow 
tar or aniline dyes, as they give better 
resu Its than dye wood tincture, ij 
prevent the varnish stain > being w 
brittle, the addition of elemi rosin is » 
much better one than common rosin, * 
the latter retards the drying quality. * 
if too much be used, renders the su* 
sticky. 

Water Stains.— Water stains i are s° |j 
tions of chemicals, dye extracts, ^ 
gent substances, and coal-tar ay j| 
water. They roughen the wood, a 
advantage, however, which can w - oU3 
edied to a large extent by pr jg . 
treatment, as follows: The wood is _ ^ 
tcned with a wet sponge, allowed 




WOOD 



785 



nhbed with sandpaper, or 
and, then rj » otber agen cie 9 . . This 
ade smooth J ntg roughening of 
!t , e fby stain. Another dis- 



ma 



T^ct entirely 

a lm0 face by x"^ . . + . 

tbe su i f ^ of these stams is that, the^ are 



wood, which 
S[ dly .; b e gaining I of large surfaces 
^ ke V For this too there is a remedy 
difficult- -l . the woot i 1S rubbed all 
Tbe surta.ce ^ H nse ed oil, applied 

over evenly 1 flowed to dry, and 

with a woolen ^ sand _ 



ing crevices and holes and for repairing 
wood work and as a general substitute 
for wood. 

Wood flour loo ounces 

Castor oil y s fluidounce 

Acetone .... y s fluidounce 

Powdered rosin . . % ounce 



tten ^^Jrf rtSiappHed with a 



* — - The waiei "ft- — - . , , 

P ap now spreads evenly, and is but 
sponge, »ow A . th wood> 



Alcohol 



% fluidounce 



, A J ? ? assel brown and nut brown 
kQ0W nl ,les Catechine is recommended 
LWn Shades, with tannin or pyro- 
l °n- Z \A and green vitriol for gray. 
C\rtht-colore g d stains the tar-dyes 
• p Sreen croceine scarlet, Parisian 
S b£ Sne, water-soluble nigrosm, 
iut and oak brown are very suitable. 
With proper mixing of these dyes, all 
colors except blue and violet can be 
produced, and prove very fast to light 
and air, and superior to turpentine stains. 
Only the blue and violet dyes, methyl 
blue, naphthol blue, and pure violet, do 
not come up to the standard, and require 
a second staining with tannm. 

A very simple method of preparing 
water stains is as follows: Solutions are 
made of the dyes most used, by dissolving 
600 parts of the dye in 10,000 parts of 
hot water, and these are kept in bottles 
or casks. Any desired stain can be 
prepared by mixing proper quantities of 
the solutions, which can be diluted with 
water to make lighter stains. 

Stains for Wood Attacked by Alkalies 
or Acids. — • 

Solution A 
Copper sulphate. . . 125 grams 
Potassium chlorate. 125 grams 

Water 1,000 cu. cm. 

Boil until all is dissolved. 

Solution B 
Aniline hydro- 

chloride ISO grams 

Water 1,000 cu. cm. 

Apply Solution A twice by means of a 
ruan, allowing time to dry after each 
; 0a \; next, put on Solution B and let dry 
l&l ., °n the day following, rub on a 

a month^ 11 a d ° th and repeat thiS ° nCe 

SUBSTITUTES FOR WOOD. 

ing is a Toi-. 
It can be used for fill- 



Mix the two powdered ingredients and 
then add a mixture of the liquids. Knead 
till uniform. 

II- — "Carton Pierre" is the name of a 
mass which is used as a substitute for 
carved wood. It is prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: Glue is dissolved and 
boiled; to this, tissue paper in suitable 
quantity is added, which will readily go 
to pieces. Then Hnseed oil is added, 
and finally chalk is stirred in. The hot 
mass forms a thick dough which crumbles 
in the cold, but softens between the 
fingers and becomes kneadable, so that 
it can be pressed into molds (of glue, 
gypsum, and sulphur) . After a few days 
the mass will become dry and almost as 
hard as stone. The paper imparts to it 
a high degree of firmness, and it is less 
apt to be injured than wood. It bind 
well and readily adheres to wood. 

HI — Wood Pulp. — The boards fo 
painters' utensils are manufactured i 
the following manner: The ordmar 
wood fiber (not the chemical wood cellu 
lose) is well mixed with soluble glass o 
33° Be., then spread like cake upon a 
even surface, and beaten or -rolled uat 
nm nr,th Before completely dry, tbe cas 

d r d t F g wLreupon , tlima" ma 
about 133 A ,, 7 i;Xh Ptc like woo 

the admixture of the 



cor- 



tained by 
responding 

mass Tne wouu — S p ecies o 
by placing a Roarci u ■ w hic 
tTmber to le imitatf in v meg ^ t 

causes the soft parts sion wl 

deepen,.and making an i F fid ^ ^ 

the original board thus i not q „,t 

wood pulp when the t origin - 
hard. Bymeansof oneot gsed) im 

boards Cde upon a 1«| 

sessions can be m . Th 



-The 
laEti « Wood) 



"t'Yai!+u l tir^ 0 ^ owil1 g > s a f° rmll ' a ^ or 



done with palettes. 



786 



WRITING — YEAST 



WOOD, CHLORINE-PROOFING: 

See Acid-Proofing. 
WOOD, FIREPROOFING: 

See Fireproofing. 

WOOD GILDING: 

See Plating. 
WOOD, IMITATION: 

See Plaster. 

WOOD POLISHES: 

See Polishes. 

WRITING UNDER THE SHELL 
OF AN EGG: 

Dissolve one ounce of alum in a half 
pint of vinegar with a small pointed 
brush outline whatever writing you desire 
on the shell of the egg with the above 
solution. After the solution has dried 
thoroughly on the egg, boil it for about 
15 minutes. If these directions are car- 
ried out all tracings of the writing will 
have disappeared from the outside of the 
shell— but when the shell is cracked open 
the writing will plainly show on the white 
of the egg. 

WRITING, RESTORING FADED: 

Writing on old manuscripts, parch- 
ments, and old letters that has faded into 
nearly or complete invisibility can be 
restored by rubbing over it a solution of 
ammonium sulphide, hydrogen sulphide 
or of "liver of sulphur. 55 On parchment 
the restored color is fairly permanent but 
on paper it does not last long. The let- 
ters however could be easily retraced, 
after such treatment, by the use of India 
ink and thus made permanent. This 
treatment will not restore faded aniline 
ink. It only works with ink containing a 
metal-like iron that forms a black sul- 
phide. 

WRINKLES, REMOVAL OF: 

See Cosmetics. 

Yeast 

DRY YEAST. 

Boil together for J hour, 95 parts of 
the finest, grated hops and 4,000 parts of 
water. Strain. Add to the warm liquor 
1,750 parts of rye meal or flour. When 
the temperature has fallen to that of the 
room add 167 parts of good yeaat. On 
the following day the mass will be in & 
state of fermentation. While it is in this 
condition add 4,000 parts of barley 
flour, so as to form a dough. This dough 
l« cut up into thin disks, which are dried 



as rapidly as possible in the open air ot 
sun. For use, the disks are broken, into 
small pieces and soaked overnight in warm 
water. The yeast can be used on the fol- 
lowing day as if it were ordinary brewers* 
yeast. 

PRESERVATION OF YEAST. 

I. — The yeast is laid in a vessel of cold 
water which is thereupon placed in a 
well- ventilated, cool spot. In this man- 
ner the yeast can be preserved for several 
weeks. In order to preserve the yeast 
for several months a different process 
must be followed. _ The yeast, after 
having been pressed, is thoroughly dried. 
For this purpose the yeast is cut up into 
small pieces which are rolled out, placed 
on blotting paper, and allowed to dry in 
a place which is not reached by the sun. 
These rolls arc then grated, again dried, 
and finally placed in glass bottles. For 
use, the yeast is dissolved, whereupon it 
immediately regains its freshness. This 
process is particularly to be recommend- 
ed because it preserves the yeast for a 
long period. 

IT. — For liquid yeast add one-eighth 
of its volume in glycerine. In the case of 
compressed yeast, the cakes are to be 
covered with glycerine and kept in 
closed vessels. Another method of pre- 
serving compressed yeast is to mix it 
intimately with animal charcoal to a 
dough, which is to be dried by exposure 
to sunlight. When it is to be used, it is 
treated with water, which will take up 
the ferment matter, while the charcoal 
will be deposited. Liquid and com- 
pressed yeast have been kept for a con- 
siderable time, without alteration, by 
saturating the former with chloroform 
and keeping the latter under chloroform 
water. 

YEAST TESTS. 

I. — Pour a few drops of yeast into 
boiling water. If the yeast sinks, it is 
spoiled; if it floats, it is good. 

II. — To 1 pound yeast add J tablespoon • 
ful of corn whisky or brandy, a pinch of 
sugar, and 2 tablespoonfuls of wheat 
flour. Mix thoroughly and allow the re- 
sultant compound to stand in a warn? 
place. If the yeast is good it will risem 
about an hour. 

YEAST AND FERTILIZERS: 

See Fertilizers. 

YELLOW (CHROME), TEST FOR: 
See Pigments. 



RECENT DEVELOPMENTS NOT CLASSIFIED 

ELSEWHERE 



ACID-PROOF COATINGS: 

rMorinated Rubber— "Torn es it" may 
hp toS S in such solvents as toluol or 
J Xflash naphtha to give coatings which 
|! highly resistant to corrosion, acids 
and alkalies. 
Mowing is a formula: 
Chlorinated rubber ... 20 parts 

Toluol ■ ■ • 80 P arts 

Tung oil 5 P arts 

Pigment 10 parts 

AGRICULTURAL INSECTICIDES : 

Bordeaux Mixture— This is a good 
all-round fungicide, however it will stain 
■whatever it comes in contact with a blue- 
green color. Wooden or earthen con- 
tainers should be used in mixing; metal 
containers should be avoided. The follow- 
ing formula is recommended for summer 
spraying: 

Copper sulfate .... 2% ounces 
Lime (unslaked) . 2V 2 ounces 
Water to make .... 2 gallons 

Mix the copper sulfate with almost 
™Vr the water, dissolve thoroughly, 
alake the lime with a little water to 
Jake a smooth paste. Next, add most 
1 the remaining water to the paste, 
S7 ln S a uniform solution of milk of 
Pour these two solutions at the 
Iest e f la jf int o a vessel containing the 
strain a* Water > thoroughly stir and 
shouiri -l r being made, the mixture 
Wnl Used Promptly. For good ad- 
f 0t pa \ ai1 oa «ce of any good mild soap 
'issdw! - gallon of mixture should be 
veo - m a little hot water and added. 

to «St^ Ulfur Spray— The following 
^riculti !i e ^ omnien ded hy the Oregon 
urai Experiment Station: 

\ 66 pounds 

C (Powdered or 

Water ground ) - • ■ 100 pounds 
. 60 gallons 



- ^ S , lime to the wate * and heat 
just below the boiling point, then add 
sulfur and boil for 45 minutes— stir con- 
tinuously. Add hot water to compensate 
for the loss by evaporation. After cool- 
ing and settling, the clear liquid may be 
drawn off. Care should be taken to pre- 
vent the solution from coming in contact 
with the skin, clothing or buildings. The 
caustic action of the mixture should be 
remembered at all times. 

AUTOMOBILE CLEANER: 

An effective automobile cleaner may 
be prepared as follows: 

Naphtha 65 parts 

Bentonite 15 parts 

Triethanolamine 3 parts 

Beeswax 8 parts 

Ceresin 8 parts 

Water 66 parts 

Stearic acid 7 P art s 

The stearic acid, triethanolamme^and 
water are mixed and heated to 212 *, 
stirring to attain smooth solution, lne 
waxes g are melted in the Naphtha which 
is then added to the soap solution Mir 
fhoro^ghly until a smooth emulsion « 
tnoraufciu.r Bentonite and 

obtained then ana xne^ t 
continue stirring until a creamy p 
results. 



with Alpha J"" n ^ b 'S,, Methyl Violet 

—violet. Colors i«=> ddt ± 
used. Perfume may be 

L _Crystal ... ■■■ q llon 

Dye • 98° * . ? cr ystals 

Distribu te the^-^stanar mixer 

sulfate *ay be 

above. 



788 



BLEACHING— CASEIN 



BLEACHING: 

TTemo— If a rough bleach 5s desired 
the hemp is first boiled for a half hour m 
floSn of 1 part /ilicate o soda at 
?0» Tw. to 200 parts of water. l&e 
Jemp is then removed and boiled m 
water alone; then rinsed and steeped for 
JThours involution of 1 P^rt blea^g 
powder to 600 parts of water After 
draining, the material is soured in hj dro 
cSoric g acid (1 part ^merc^l ^ to 
1000 parts water). Next, the hemj is 
washed thoroughly and dried A t 
whiter color may be obtained by repeat 
ing the process. 

ciifc A method for bleaching silk 

which is considered to be superior to 
many others is the following ^the silk is 
tomersed overnight in a solution con- 
taining: 

Hydrogen peroxide 

(12 vols.) 2 gallons 

Sodium Silicate ... % pint 
White Soap ....... 1 V°^ d 

Water 10 S alIons 

The soap is dissolved in the water be- 
fore the addition of the other ingredi- 
ents. The temperature of the bath is 
kept at 120° F. during the bleach. After 
removal, the silk is washed lightly— first 
m a solution of water containing a small 
percentage of sulfuric acid and then in 
fresh water. 

Wool.— Ebell recommends the follow- 
fag method for bleaching wool : — the wool 
is dipped into a solution of hydrogen 
peroxide (3%), to which has been added 
for every gallon of peroxide .2 gallons of 
ammonia (sp. gr. .9010). The solution 
is left at room temperature for 24 hours. 
By raising the temperature to 86° F. the 
bleach will proceed more Tapidly and 
will be finished in eight to ten hours. 

Although the foregoing process is one 
of the more expensive, it is often used 
nfhere a more permanent white is desired. 

CASEIN: 

Casein Preparation. — Casein occurs in 
the milk of mammals and it is the prin- 
cipal protein of cow's milk. It is usually 
obtamed from skimmed milk which lias 
been practically freed from all the but- 
ter fat by centrifuging or other me- 
chanical means. It may be considered 
essentially a waste product. On the in- 
dustrial scale casein is separated from 
skimmed milk by two processes 



(1) By precipitating by the addition 
of acids such as hydrochloric, sulfuric 
phosphoric, and lactic or by << Self _ 
souring," that is by the lactic acid 
generated by the bacteria on the souring 
of the milk. 

(2) By the addition of rennet. We 
have therefore two distinct classes of 
casein, commonly called acid casein and 
rennet casein. 

In one method of precipitating by the 
addition of acid the highly skimmed milk 
is warmed to a temperature of 94-96° p. 
stirring rapidly while adding hydro- 
chloric acid which has been diluted with 
8 parts of water. The acidity should 
have a pH value of 4.1. The whey is 
then drawn off, the casein washed with 
water at 94° F. two or three times, 
pressed and dried at 125 to 130° F. 

In precipitating with rennet the milk 
must be highly skimmed and not sour. 
The amount of rennet added is usually 
dependent on its activity, generally 1% 
ounces per 100 gallons of milk. The ren- 
net is first dissolved in water and stirred 
in the milk which has been warmed to a 
temperature of 95° F. It is then al- 
lowed to settle undisturbed after which 
the precipitated mass is cut up with a 
special knife, the whey drawn off and 
the casein pressed, washed and dried. 
The temperature of the drying must 
be carefully controlled as overheating 
causes the casein to become dark, in Tne 
manufacture of artificial horn where teg 
net casein is used, it is essential that tM 
casein should be washed carefully to tree 
it of fat. This may be done by extracj 
ing the dried casein with solvents bucn 
as benzol. , 
Rennet casein and acid casein arc use 
for entirely different purposes. K«in 
casein usually comes in large granulj 
form and is ground to meet, 
sumer's requirements. 

Rennet casein differs from acid casein 
in its solubility in alkalies, the acid WV 



in its soiunuiLy m <iux**l^», rt „-t P s. 

readily soluble in hydroxides, carbonate* 
bicarbonates and sulfites, while rennet 
insoluble in carbonates and bicarbona 
and only partially in borax and ammoi 

Uses of Casein— Casein plays an j| 
portants part in the manufacture 
following : 

Adhesives.— Acid casein is useu j 
large quantities for the manuiactu ^ 
adhesives for veneers and for pap 
cardboard. The following is typit 
such an adhesive: 



Casein. 

\Vater 1 

Wfl fer containing the borax and 
TI nla £ warmed up to 60= C. and 
aD1 ? h r L the casein is added a little 

^?3£ «ntu a unlform e lue K/V 

• rt A little starch may be added. 
XV using sodium hydroxide or am- 
*2E as solvent the glue is not water- 
Siut and a little formaldehyde 

should be added. 
Another formula calls for: 

Casein 1° P arts 

Water 40-90 Parts 

Lime 2 P arts 

Pharmaceutical and Food.— Casein 
finds a large employment in the prepara- 
tion of medical compounds in the form 
of caseinates of metals such as silver, 
bismuth, calcium, etc. It is also used for 
food products; here highly purified acid 
casein is desired. 

Paints and Varnishes.— Preparations 
from mixtures of casein, lime and am- 
monia are used for interior coatings. 
Exterior paints may he prepared by 
using lime, casein and whiting. A little 
formaldehyde aids in rendering them 
more resistant to the weather. Colloidal 
masses from casein solution with admix- 
tures of a drying oil such as tung oil 
and a white pigment such as titanium 
oxide form excellent coatings which are 
resistant to water and to changes in 
color. 

Paper and Textile Sizes. — Casein is 
used to a very large extent in the sizing 
<rf paper and textiles. The casein for 
this purpose should be low in fat con- 
tent, white, and free from any impuri- 
ties. Casein renders paper much more 
resistant to tearing, water and even fire, 
textiles may be coated with a solution 
°t casein and then hardened by means 
01 formaldehyde which will render them 
°K r ^ eable and give the appearance of 
ttiticial leather. Casein is largely used 
nfcE 1 g varnishes for papers. A var- 
f ormuS be pre P aTed from thc following 

§ s fin jo parts 

7 at ** 80 parts 

ammonia 21° Be 2 parts 

M are V olution 5 P aTt s of glycerine 
1 aehvii , and ec l ual volumes of f ormal- 
*j iue and ammonia. 

Pla • 

Used Large amounts of casein are 



789 

Sf?/ in l ar e e quantities in the manu- 
facture of pencils, buttons, jewelry ar- 
ticles and novelties of all sorts. It comes 
m tra ns p arent effects in all p aste l s colors 
and is very tough and easily machined. 
It is also a substitute for ivory, csoe- 
cia ly m the manufacture of billiard 
Bails. Kcnnet casein must be employed in 
the manufacture of plastics. The casein 
is plasticized with the addition of plas- 
ticmng agents and heat in special 
extruding presses from whence it is 
ejected in the form of rods. These rods 
may be pressed under platens and fused 
together into sheets. The rods and 
sheets are then hardened by immersion 
in a heath of formaldehyde of varying 
strengths and for periods of time de- 
pendent on the size of the rods and 
sheets. The rods and sheets are then 
machined into the desired articles. Many 
variations to the above process are in 
use but in general the one above is fol- 
lowed. Casein takes a very high polish 
and may be polished by dipping into a 
special chemical bath. 

"Synthetic Wool". — A discovery of an 
Italian chemist, is a very recent develop- 
ment which will probably become of tre- 
mendous importance to the Textile In- 
dustry. The industrial production of 
this product started less than a year 
ago (Fall, 1935). 

Casein, which is extracted from skim 
milk of low fat content by chemical 
means, is subjected to a curing process 
and then after a number of carefully 
controlled operations is formed into a 
solution which is ready for the spinning 
process. From this point on the proceas 
is similar to that of rayon The viscous 
solution is next directed through small 
holes whereby it is converted into 
«wo^n thrca'ds." It * then passed 
through a hardening bath, the fibres are 

C 1*t T^iA "synthetic wool" 
iswarm^soft and in 
taut properties compare 

S-^fifenSt^l 

H StiCS J ""he f£ disadvantages of the 
One of the tew « tensde 
synthetic product « ™ m ; ared with 
strength ™T however, it ap- 

that of Mturd/^nS that further 
pears reasonable to assum rfaI into 

rs^^rr with natu 

soaps, pottery, inks, etc. 



CHROMIUM PLATING 



PHROMIUM PLATING. 
F.^s Process, which was put into 
f^hmit 1924, is the one commonly 

&| X bath consists of a solution of 

arid present. The concentration of 
S£ m & acid generally ranges: tr°m200 
S 500 grams per liter or about 27 to 
about 67 oz. per gallon. The bath a^ 
present recommended by tfte Buitnu 
Standards has the same contents 

The two formulas given below are 
tj^al of the two types of solution in 
most common use, 

1 Dilute Solution: 

Chromic acid— 250 grams 

per liter (33 oz./gal.) 
Sulfuric acid— 2.5 grams 
per liter (.33 oz./gal.) 

II Concentrated Solution: 

Chromic acid— 400 grams 

per liter (53 oz./gal.) 
Sulfuric acid-— i grams per 
liter (.53 oz./gal.) 

Sulfuric acid is specified in the above 
formulas because it is convenient to use 
and consists almost entirely of sulfate 
radical. The quantity of sulfuric acid 
to be used by volume would be about 
1-1/3 cubic centimeters or about 1/25 of 
a fluid ounce per liter in Formula No. 
I, and about 2-1/6 cubic centimeters or 
ahout 1/15 of a fluid ounce per liter in 
Formula No. II. Similarly the .33 
avoirdupois oz. of sulfuric acid in Form- 
ula No. I would be equal to about .17 
fluid ounces, and the .53 oz./gal. in 
Formula No. II, would be about .28 fluid 
ounces. 

Any soluble sulfate of definite com- 
position may be used to provide the 
sulfate radical but it is then necessary 
to calculate the quantity to be used 
which will be equivalent to the sulfuric 
acid in the above formulas. Thus anhy- 
drous sodium sulfate contains approxi- 
mately 2/3 of its weight of sulfate radi- 
cal, and it would be necessary to use 
3.6 grams per liter (Vz oz./gal.) of it 
in Formula No. I instead of the sul- 
furic acid. Likewise 6 grams per liter 
(.8 oz./gal.) of anhydrous sodium sul- 
fate would be required to replace the 
sulfuric acid in Formula No. II. 

"While the sulfate radical concentra- 
tion given above is very small, its exact 
concentration is very important and 
must be carefully maintained. The 



amount of sulfate radical in the bath 
should always be maintained so that 
the proportion between the chromic acid 
and sulfate radical is approximately loo 
to 1 Without the sulfate radical n 0 
chromium deposit would be obtained, 
and if the amount given is exceeded 
appreciably, no chromium deposit may 
again be obtained or only a very scanty 
deposit covering the cathode imperfectly. 
For this reason it is essential to use 
very pure chromic acid in making up 
the bath, or else to ascertain the exact I 
amount of sulfate radical in the chromic 
acid used by analysis, and deduct this 
amount from the amount of sulfate rad- »j 
ical which is recommended to be added. 
Some chromic acid contains more sulfate 
radical than is necessary for chromium 
plating, and is therefore unsuitable for 
tliis purpose and it is impassible to use 1 
it. 

Both of the baths given are to he 
used with lead anodes, at a temperature ' 
of about 45 °C (113°F) and with a 
cathode current density of about one 
ampere per square inch (15 amps./sq. 
dm.). Under these conditions a bright, 
mirror-like chromium plate is obtained 
on smooth, polished metal surfaces. The 
temperature of the bath must be care- 
fully maintained, as if it is allowed to 
drop to 35 °C (95 °F) a bright plate 
would no longer be obtained unless the 
current were reduced to about half its 
value, while if it is permitted to rise 
to 55°C (131° F) no plate might be ob- 
tained on some parts of the object, and it 
would be necessary to practically duume 
the current density to get good results 
These last conditions are sometimes useu 
in practice, particularly where it is de- 
sired to build up a heavy, hard-wear-re- 
sistant plate on such articles as tools, 
dies, and gages in a short time, but 
higher voltage is required. The con 
tions for obtaining mirror-bright cjrou> 
urn plate may be readily ascertained tr 
Fig. 1. This graph is of necessity >M 
approximate, but it is nevertheless aw 
valuable guide. At any given temp . 
ture of the bath, the best results *™ J| 
tained by using the current density 
responding to the edge of the brignxf ' ja 
area furthest to the right at this te rk^ 
ature, or a slightly smaller clirrelU ohoW n 
sitv. "While the bright plate area sn™ 
in Fig. 1 is approximately true tor ^ 
Solution No. I and Solution No. 1 >y 
upper right-hand limits apply most c'^ 
to Solution No. I and the very low* Q 
left-hand part of the area is onij » 



CHROMIUM PLATING 



791 



, 4.'^« No II. I* is usually very 
by So l ut f to work within the bright 
*°P° We as it is very difficult to buff 
dull chromium plate owing to 



"VorS No. I is generally used for 
Ji i? thick wear-resistant chromium 
P r under identical conditions it has 
P ,- e W htaher efficiency than Formula 
a sIl fJ Uy T h f efficiency of both solutions 
No \ V in to 15 per cent under the con- 
is liven the remainder of the cur- 
^Tbeing consumed in the production of 
T n hundant evolution of hydrogen gas 
"Vthe reduction of a small amount of 
^ mic acid, which is re-oxidized to 
£S acid again the anode. Form- 
ll Ko II is most suitable for general 
Se as it has a higher conductivity and 
W be used with a six volt source of 
current, while Formula No. I requires 
a higher voltage unless the electrode 
spacing is very small. Solution No II is 
also somewhat more dependable and flex- 
ible than Solution No. I, and requires 
less care in its operation and mainten- 

3HC6. 

As indicated above, the exact compo- 
sition of these baths is very important 
and must be maintained by periodic 
analyses and additions if they are used 



very much Otherwise a point may soon 
be reached where very poor results, or 
even no deposit, is obtained. If the 
solutions are operated cold, a heavy dull- 
grey chromium plate is obtained at effi- 
ciencies of the order of 30 to 40 per 
cent, but no bright plate can he obtained 
and ^ is necessary to heat the baths for 
this purpose. 

Lead lined steel tanks are generally 
used to contain large baths, while glass 
and earthenware containers are conven- 
ient for small baths. Numerous other 
formulas have been proposed than those 
given, but the only active constituents 
are usually the chromic acid and the 
sulfate radical, if satisfactory results 
are obtained. Fluorides have been 
found to give results similar to sulfates, 
while chlorides give only dull plate and 
are unstable in the bath, chlorine gas 
being evolved at the anode. Fused baths 
have been proposed, as have also baths 
containing only trivalent chromium salts, 
but none of these baths have any com- 
mercial value. 

If it is planned to do chromium plat- 
ing commercially, it is advisable to con- 
sult the companies licensing the use of 
the process, as chromium plating £ 
patented in many countries. 




792 



COSMETICS 



T ATEST DEVELOPMENTS IN 
COSMETICS, TOILET AND 
BEAUTY PREPARATIONS 
including creams, lotions, lipsticks, as- 
tringents, powders, cologne waters, mani- 
cure preparations, hair preparations, 
dentifrices, breath perfumes. 

COLD CREAMS: 

A recent French patent for cold cream 
Calls for: 

L-Mineral oil 365 parts 

White wax - ■ 45 P ar * s 

Vegetable wax 90 parts 

Borax P ar ? s 

Water 65 P arts 

The waxes and oils are melted together 
on the water bath and a solution of the 
borax in water is added slowly to it while 
stirring. The mixture is removed from 
the bath and stirring continued until the 
product is cold, smooth and uniform. 

To 4 parts by weight of the above mix- 
ture 6 parts of a mixture of the follow- 
ing powders is added and the whole 
worked to a smooth homogeneous cream. 

Talc 0000 77 parts 

Zinc white 17 parts 

Precipitated chalk 63 parts 

II.— Stearic acid 15 ounces 

Lanolin anhydrous, 8 ounces 

Spermaceti 10 ounces 

Almond oil 19 ounces 

Triethanolamine ... 2 ounces 

Geranium oil to suit 

Water 3 pints 

Melt the stearic acid, lanolin and sper- 
maceti in the almond oil and heat to 
about 70° C. Then add the mixture to a 
boiling solution of the triethanolamine in 
water. Stir well and add the perfume, 
continuing the stirring until the product 
is uniform. Fill into jars or other con- 
tainers while warm. 

Mentholated Cold Cream. — 
White petrolatum .... 9 ounces 
White beeswax ...... 1 ounce 

Menthol 60 grains 

Camphor 60 grains 

Thymol 30 grains 

Boric acid 20 grains 

Rose water I ounce 

Melt the beeswax and the petrolatum 
together on a water bath and when fluid 
and uniform remove from the bath end 
add the camphor, menthol and thymol. 
Stir the whole until thoroughly blended 
and stir in gradually the rose water in 
which has been dissolved the boric acid. 



4 ounces 
6 pints 
2 pints 
I ounce 



Work the mixture to a smooth consist- 
ency in a mortar or ointment mill ana - 
fill into suitable jars. 

Lemon Cold Cream.— 

White wax 1 pound 

White ceresin 

Mineral oil (white) . . 

Water 

Borax 

Powdered white Cas- 
tile soap 100 grains 

Oil of lemon 200 grains 

Coloring (vegetable 

yellow) enough to tint. 

Melt the wax in the paraffin oil at 
about 65° C. In another vessel dissolve 
the borax in the water raised to the same 
temperature. Pour the aqueous solution 
in a continuous stream into the oil mix- 
ture, stir for a few minutes, add the oil 
of lemon and coloring and stir well. 



CREAMS: 
Tan and Sunburn. — 

White beeswax ... 9 ounces 

Spermaceti 3 ounces 

Oil of almonds .... 1% pints 
Powdered camphor 3 ounces 

Borax Yss ounce 

Water 12 fluidounces 

Phenylethyl alcohol 15 grains 
Oil of neroli 

synthetic 15 grains 

Oil of peach kernels 15 grains 
Melt the waxes in the oil of almonds on 
a water bath till uniform. Remove from 
the bath and add the camphor stirring 
till uniform. Then add gradually a hot 
water solution of the borax and finally 
add the oils and work till smooth, pref- 
erably in an ointment mill. 

Vanishing Cream. — 

I. — Stearic acid (triple 

pressed) 5 pounds 

Glycerine ........ W2 pounds 

Water 12 pints 

Triethanolamine . . % pound 
Phenylacetic acid . . G drops 
Benzyl propionate .210 grains 

Musk xylene 20 grains 

Terpineol 2 ounces 

Melt the stearic acid and add it to a 
boiling solution of triethanolamine in 



water. Stir and add to it a mixture 
the oils in glycerine. Stir until cool. 
II.— Stearic acid .... 4 ounces 
Crystalline potas- 
sium carbonate Vs ounce 
Borax 2 ounces 



COSMETICS 



793 



Glycerine ^ 

Tdd perfume" to 'suit. 



ounce 
ounces 



7,fl.ric add is melted on the water 
Tne st f fluid the potassium car- 



dissolved in the 



b atb an id b the borax 
bonate , an % dcd slowly while stirring. 
* ater Ii,* dyc^rine is added and the 
Lastly _ tne .Jy W J1 to smoothness. The 
whole is mi_ ed from the water hath 
P^ lhen the temperature^ has reached 
and ^ S desired perfume is added con- 
^° Stirring unta cold. If desired a 
timing son g ^ be substltutcd 

Cleansing Cream — 

U steaTi c acid ....... 30 ounces 

White liquid petro- 

latum 4 pounds 

Triethanolamine . . . 

Glycerine 

Water 

Blend the acid with 



4 ounces 
, 5 ounces 

6 pints 
the mineral 



oil, 
C. 



heating to a temperature of about 10 
aad stirring well to a uniform mixture. 
Then add a boiling solution of the tri- 
ethanolamine in the water slowly while 
stirring continually until the whole has 
emulsified, Remove the heat and add any 
desired perfume base dissolved in the 
glycerine continuing to stir slowly until 
cool and a smooth cream is obtained. 

LOTIONS: 

Frost Bite Lotion. — 

Camphor 55 grains 

Salicylic acid 55 grains 

Carbolic acid crystals 20 grains 

Tannic acid . . . " 45 grains 

Tincture of benzoin compound 
enough to make 4 ounces 
Dissolve the acids in the tincture by 
snaking. Once a day apply to the frosted 
parts with a eamel-hair brush. 

Sunburn Lotion. — 

^inc sulphocar bolate . . 1 ounce 

glycerine y s ounce 

Orange-flower water . . 8 ounces 
Urne water 1 pint 

skin f e lo . tion fr equently over ailing 
8ooH/ wU1 be f ound to be cooling, 
Sfo- and . healin S- Shake the bottle 



Orange-flower water 16 fluidounces 
Mix all ingredients together and bottle, 
bnake before using. Apply to body 

night a SP ° ngC Cach mornin S an ^ 

Red Nose, — ■ 

Thymol 4 grauis 

Menthol 5 gTa ins 

Alcohol 1 fhiidounee 

Hydrogen peroxide 

3 per cent 4 ounces 

"Water 10 fluidounces 

ASTRINGENTS: 

Astringent Lotion. — 

Alum 2 ounces 

Alcohol 60 ounces 

Glycerine 1 ounce 

Floral water 40 ounces 

Dissolve the alum in the -floral water 
and add to it the glycerine, and finally 
the alcohol. 

Cooling Astringent (for enlarged 
pores). — 

Alum 1 3 ounces 

Menthol % ounce 

Eau de Cologne ... 50 ounces 

Water ^ ounces 

Dissolve the alum in the water and add 
to it the solution of menthol in the fcau 
de Cologne. 

Perspiration Deodorants (Foot Pow- 

^Tllcum Bounces 

laicurn ^ ■ • ounces 

Corn starch 

Salicylic acid ^6™ _ 

Thoroughly mix together to a uniform 

powder. 



?or Per 



re using, 
•spiring People. — 



1 ^oxide of hydro- 
gen 3 p er cent y fl u id 0 unees 

tegR*?* 1 fluidounce 

""■wi-nazel 14 fluidounces 



LIPSTICK: £Q 0 unces 

Paraffin l wax ouncea 

White beeswax ounceg 

Cocoa butter 

White liquid 4Q ounce s 

petrolatum 50 

Vanillin . ■ • • ad d the cocoa 

Melt the Y" eB J£SBtS and stir to a 
butter and the P^™^ and add 
uniform ™f % *Xe Vanillin. ^ 

molds. 

BLACKSTICK: ^ me the same 

* For P^P a r/lSstTc£ substituting the 
formulas as for hpstic e ^ ^ blaC k 



COSMETICS 



fACE POWDERS: 

T— Precipitated chalk ... 10 ounces 

rpaic 8 ounces 

Osmo-Waolin 8 ounces 

Magnesium carbonate. 8 ounces 

Bismuth sub-nitrate . . 1 ounce 
Finely levigated zinc 

W hit e 2 ounces 

Oil of rose S° g™\ nS 

Oil of sandalwood ... SO grams 

Oil of vetiver 20 grams 

Color to suit. 

jj -T; a i c 15 ounces 

Osrao-kaolin 30 ounces 

Race starch 15 ounces 

Zinc oxide ........ 6 ounces 

Extract carnation 

pink 1 ^ce 

jjun Tan Powder. — 

Magnesium carbonate . 18 parts 

Precipitated chalk 18 parts 

Golden ochre 60 parts 

Pink lake <5 parts 

Use 1 pound of the above mixture to 9 
pounds of white powder. 

Colors for Face Powders. — The fol- 
lowing are the more important colors that 
are used in tinting face powders: 

Brunette Sienna 

Rachel Yelloiv ochre with 

some yellow lake 

Rose Carmine 

Cream Same as rachel 

COMPACTS: 

French chalk 40 ounces 

Rice starch 30 ounces 

Osmo-kaolin 20 ounces 

Zinc carbonate 10 ounces 

Binder 25 fiuidounr.es 

Carmine to siiit 

Perfume to suit 

The binder is made according to the 
following formula: 

Tincture of benzoin. 15 fluidounces 

Acacia 20 ounces 

"Water 30 quarts 

The acacia gum is soaked in the water 
tfll dissolved and then the tincture of 
benzoin is added and the whole stirred 
till uniform. This binder is then added 
to a uniform mixture of the above pow- 
ders. 

COLOGNE WATER (FINEST): 

I. Bergamot oil . . 3 fluidounces 
Neroli oil (big- 
arade petale 

extra) 1 fluidounee 

Lemon oil (hand 



pressed) 2 fluidounces 

Ivavender oil ... V a fluidounee 
Petitgrain oil 

(French) ... 2 fluidounces 
Rosemary oil . . 1 fluidounee 
Bois de rose 

femmelle .... Vs fluidounee 
Spirit of wine 

(80 per cent) 12 pints 
Dissolve all the oils except the neroli 
and rosemary in the spirits of wine. Dis. 
till and add the neroli and rosemary. 

(Second Quality).-— 

XI. — Bergamot oil ... . 1 fluidounee 

Lemon oil 1 fluidounee 

Orange oil 1 fluidounee 

Oil of neroli 

(Portugal) ... % fluidounee 
Lavender oil .... % fluidounee 
Oil of cinnamon . . % fluidounee 
Alcohol (90 per 

cent) 16 pints 

Dissolve the oils in the alcohol, allow 
to stand for one month with frequent 
shaking and then filter to crystal clear 
ness. 

The aromatic oils are usually dissolved 
in the strong alcohol and if dilution is 
desired to cheapen the product, orange 
flower water or rose water is used. 

MANICURE PREPARATIONS: 
Cuticle Remover. — • 

Sodium hydroxide Y& ounce 

Glycerine 2% fluidounces 

Rose water 10 fluidounces 

Dissolve the alkali in a solution of wa- 
ter and glycerine, filter, and keep the 
solution in rubber-stoppered bottles. 

Nail Enamel. — 

Acetone 400 fluidounces 

Butyl acetate ... 300 fluidounces 
Ethyl lactate .... 200 fluidounces 
Dibutyl phthalate 100 fluidounces 
Phenylethyl 

alcohol % fluidounee 

Cellulose nitrate. 25 ounces 
Eosine (alcoholic 

solution) Sufficient to g" e 

desired tint. 
Dissolve the cellulose nitrate in a solu- 
tion of acetone, butyl acetate, and etfl| 
lactate. Add the dibutyl phthalate an« 
finally the phenylethyl alcohol and tm 
color solution. 

Caution: — When preparing the a ^°^g 
formula be sure to have no flame ne £ r 
some of the ingredients are very in« a 
mable. 



COSMETICS 



795 



Nai l Polish (Paste). g 

Whi te wax ^ ounces 

Stearic acu ■ • ■ - ounces 

Tri ethanolamine ^ gflUons 

^^kan'et ! ! ! i '■ • ■ ■ % ounce 
KC lte r bath heat together the 
On * fj 1 water and triethanolamine 
stea rf, Stearic acid is melted. In a sep- 

arate T.net red; then add this mixture 
ltetrX T ^ 0Ye from thC bath 
till co0 ** „ 
« -i Polishes (Powdered).— Pow- 
, *t«S. Pushes are made up essen- 
de n tvnm finely powdered pure silica, 
SlL or dStomaceous earth French 
ka0 „ a ™,Hv uowder are also used, 
Ch t r a!L P or in P combination with the 
C f h S They may be colored with iron 
Ses or with alkanet red and perfumed 
to suit. . 
A typical formula for such a polish is: 

French chalk 12 pounds 

Carmine % ounce 

Oil of rose % ounce 

Nail Softener— To soften brittle nails 
rub them well with a cloth moistened 
with a 3 per cent solution of hydrogen 
peroxide and then rinse them thoroughly 
with water. 

Nail Bleach— Nails with ugly and un- 
sightly spots may be bleached very ef- 
fectively by treating them with the fol- 
lowing solution: 

Hydrogen peroxide 

(3 per cent) , , . 5 fluidounces 

Glycerine 1 fluidounce 

Orange flower 

"water 2 fluidounces 

Dissolve the glycerine in the water and 
then add the hydrogen peroxide. 

EAIR PREPARATIONS: 
Quinine Water. 



Eau de Quinine. — 

Quinine sulphate . . ?B grains 
Tincture of can- 

* hari . des % ounce 

(jriycerme , 3 

Hose water g 

Alcohol 21 

Perfumed with a 

mixture of 

Geraniol f .. % 

Citronellol 2 

Phcnylethyl alcohol 

Color to suit. 



Quinine sulphate . 1 
rlos~ '• ' 



- e water 6 

Glycerine . 

Alcohol 

Geraniol * , , 

Linalool 
^genol . ' 
J?enylethyl alcohol 
Unnamic alcohol . 
balsam of P em . . 
-. iss °lve ft 



the tjJJ . ad d the glycerine. Dissolve 
aleoh 0 i in g redi ents in part of the 
ai »a add to the quinine solution, 



quinine 



ounce 
pints 
6 pints 
8 gallons 
iy z ounces 
3 ounces 
5 ounces 
2 ounces 
y s ounce 
50 grains 
sulphate in the 



ounces 
ounces 
ounces 



fluidounces 
fluidounces 
% fluidounce 



Dissolve the quinine sulphate in the 
alcohol, add the canthaTides tincture. 
Mix the glycerine with the water and add 
to the alcoholic solution and finally add 
the perfume materials. 

Hair Curling Preparation. — 
I. — Gum tragacanth. 1 ounce 

Glycerine 1 fluidounce 

Rose water 15 fluidounces 

Mix together. Hair is moistened with 
this solution and then rolled up in curl- 



ers. 
II 



1 ounce 
8 ounces 
% ounce 



Eau de cologne . 

Rose water 

Quince seed meal 
Perfume to suit. 
Macerate the quince seed with boiling 
water, strain to a clear uniform solution 
then cool and add *e other ingredients. 
This preparation can be used for waves 
or for moistening the hair to curl it. 

Hair Bleach- 
Hydrogen peroxide 

3 per cent . J™ 

Ammonia water .... 1U li; * 

Mix in to a V^Z^r"* 
A ? pl L t0 ThTn SSbffi with peroxide 
Edta" Tt'fo/about 10 minutes after 

which » n -!" d f d ;; Hair __ The foDowing 
Golden Tint for Hair. hair 
a shampoo preparation Jor 

golden hue. ounces 
Sodium bicarbonate, 3 

Powdered Egyptian ^ 

henna g ounces 

powdered borax 

powdered white ^ ounces 

castile soap & ounces 

Powdered sage ^ ounce 

Pyrogallol ■ o ounces 

tiered orn. mix- 
Mix powders well to ge« 



is 



COSMETICS 



8 



15 



1 ounce 
4 ounces 



ounces 
ounces 

ounces 

ounces 
pints 



ture and when ready to use moisten with 
Sr to form a lather with which the 
hair is well washed as for shampooing. 
Rinse with lukewarm water. 
Hair Waving Lotion. — 

Gum acacia 

Orange-flower water. . 
Mix into a uniform solution. 

Permanent Wave Oil. — 
Sodium hydroxide. . . 2y a 

Purified turkey red 

oil 

Strong ammonia 

water . . . . . 

Rose water 4 

Stay-comb Preparation or Waving 
Powder. — 

Powdered gum arabic. 8 parts 
Sodium salicylate 1 part 

Color and perfume to suit. 

Incorporate the color and perf ume with 
the salicylate and add to it the powdered 
gum arabic mixing thoroughly in a mor- 
tar until a uniform mixture is obtained. 
The product should be uniformly colored 
and if moist should be spread out to dry 
and then sifted through a fine sieve to 
obtain a uniform colored and fine pow- 
der. To use, this powder is dissolved in 
1 gallon of water allowing to stand if 
necessary until a thoroughly uniform so- 
lution is obtained. 

Castor Oil Pomade.— 

Castor oil . 4> fluidounces 

Benzoated mutton 

tallow 2 ounces 

Beeswax %. ounce 

Oil of neroli % fluidounce 

Oil of lilac 30 drops 

Melt the waxes and fats together on a 
water bath, stir to uniformity, and while 
cooling add the perfume, 

Brilliantine. — 

•Castor oil 1% parts 

Oil of almonds 1% parts 

Eau de cologne 4 parts 

Solid Brilliantine. — 

Paraffin 25 parts 

Liquid petrolatum ... 40 parts 

Spermaceti 8 parts 

Petrolatum 15 parts 

Perfume to suit. 

Make uniform by melting together on a 
water bath and while cooling add the 
perfume. 



Bronze Henna Shampoo. — 

Powdered henna 2 tublespoonfuls 

Borax . . t Yz teaspoonful 

Liquid bluing ... % teaspoonful 
Stir the above ingredients in 2 cupful 
of hot water and strain. Shave a bar of 
castile soap into the mixture and warm 
in an enamled pan until smooth, taking 
care not to boil the mixture. Strain and 
shampoo the hair using warm water. 

Soapless Shampoo. — 

Saponine solution .... 1 ounce 

Glycerine 5 pounds 

Rose water . . 10 gallons 

Make a saponine solution by dissolving 
1 pound of the powdered saponine in 7 
pounds of boiling water. Mix the quan- 
tity called for in the above formula with 
the other ingredients. 

Depilatory Powder. — 

Calcium sulphide 15 ounces 

Zinc oxide 2 ounces 

Starch 3 ounces 

Mix thoroughly and perfume to suit, 

Dandruff Cure. — 

Salicylic acid 12 ounces 

Castor oil 10 ounces 

Carbolic acid 3 ounces 

Eau de cologne 150 ounces 

Dissolve the salicylic and carbolic acids 
in the cologne water and then stir in the 
castor oil. Apply several times a day. 

To Help Grow Eyelashes.— Ointment 
of yellow oxide of mercury 1 per cent 13 
helpful in encouraging the growth of eye- 
lashes. This should be brushed on thi 
lashes and brows each night with a tiny 
brush. 



DENTIFRICES: 

Mouth Wash. — • 

% teaspoonful table salt 
% teaspoonful borax 
1 teaspoonful hydrogen peroxidi 

Dissolve in a glass of warm 
This solution can be prepared daily i° 
immediate use. 



wateiv 



Tooth Wash. — 

Tincture of soap bark. 4 ounces 
Tincture of rhatany . . 100 grains 

Glycerine 1 °u nce 

Rose water 3 ounces 

Essence of peppermint 20 drops 
Essense of cloves .... 20 drops 
Mix well. 



COSMETICS 



797 



r a\Ac. Mouth Wash.— 

Io dlde % ounce 

"Water . - ■ ■ • • • ' 2 grains 

Iodine • " * « . 

- i ,,. Hie potassium iodide in as 
rfSe ™te? as possible and add to 
W*£ Iodine. When the iodine has 
1 L ktely dissolved add the remaining 
c0 ^ p tn which has been dissolved the 
water in W1 
sodium chloride. 

Toothpaste. — 

Precipitated chalk 3 ounces 

Powdered cuttlefish bone 3 ounees 
Srris root (powdered) . . 1 ounce 
rivcerine enough to mate a paste 
Add enough of oil of wintergreen and 
faccharine to give desired flavor. 
Tooth Powder. (Good Cheap)— 
precipitated chalk ... 4 ounces 

Magnesia J ounce 

Gum camphor oO grains 

Borax .- 100 S™ns 

This is good for teeth and gums. It 
also helps to purity and sweeten the 
breath. 

To Clean False Teeth — 
Very finely powdered 

Italian pumic 1 pounds 

Sodium bicarbonate ... 4 ounces 
Powdered white soap . . 3 ounces 

Precipitated chalk 4 ounces 

This will clean and sweeten plates, re- 
move stains and give fine satisfaction. To 
use shake some of the powder on the wet 
plate and brush with an ordinary tooth- 
brush. 

Powder to Remove Tartar. — 

Lactic acid 1 ounce 

Precipitated chalk . , 12 ounces 
Flavor with methyl salicylate. 



BREATH PERFUMES: 

Breath Perfume.— 

Extract of licorice. . . 1 

Orris root powdered : 

Powdered sugar ... 8 

Magnesium carbonate 1 

Oil of cloves 80 

Oil of cinnamon 5 



pound 
ounce 



Breath Perfume. — 

Oil of peppermint. . 

Oil of lemon 

Oil of chamomile . . 

Oil of sage 

Vanilla 

Catechu 

Sugar 

Extract of licorice. 
Mucilage acacia . . . 



40 drops 
30 drops 
20 drops 
20 grains 
120 grains 
150 grains 
300 grains 
4 ounces 
sufficient 
quantity to 
forma mass. 

Mix the oils with the powdered ingredi- 
ents, work with the licorice and finally 
with the mucilage till uniform. 

MISCELLANEOUS: 
Freckle Remover. — 
Orange-flower water . . 10 ounces 
Hydrochloric acid .... 1/10 ounce 
Mix and apply to freckles several times 
a day with soft brush or cloth. 
Beauty Facial Clay Pack.- 
Fuller's earth 16 



ounces 
ounce 
ounces 
ounce 
pint 



ounces 
ounce 
grains 
grains 

Mix the oils well with the sugar, soften 
l? e extract with a little water and work 
tie sugar until a uniform mixture is ob- 
gjned, Roll into a thin sheet and cut 
ea h Eq - Uares weighing about % ounce 



Beeswax - ■ ■ 

Anhydrous lanolin ... 4 

Borax * 

Rose water h r — 

Color with desired tint and perfume to 
suit. 

Melt the wax together with the lanol 
over a water bath, add to it the bor- 
dissolved in the water and stir thor- 
Sy Lastly add the color dissolve 
in water and the perfume. Stir in, finall 
Se Mer's eartfi and work in a morta 
or ointment mill until a perfect smoo 
mixture is obtained. 
Face Bleach.— 
Almond meal 1 P art 

Hydrogen peroxide 

3 per cent V ^ 

xSxeTbenzoin:;: »W: 

Mix to^f^^Z^ 
Use once a week spreading ov<= 

"Reparation for Pimples, Blackhead 
| Liver-spots, etc. g ounces 

Alcohol i/„ ounces 

Acetic acid U.b.r, ' . ng 
Gum benzoin . . . . . ■ ■ ■ j 
Dissolve the benaoro m the alcon 
then add the -^ glacial acetic ad 



CELLOPHANE — CEMENTS 



798 

CELLOPHANE ADHESIVE: 

"Methyl Cellosolve" (Ethylene Glycol 
Monomethyl Ether) is used for sealing 
cellophane and like materials. The 
"Methyl Cellosolve" may he applied with 
a moistener. The solvent softens the 
cellophane which is then passed over a 
hot plate which evaporates the Methyl 
Cellosolve" and hinds the surfaces to- 
gether The solvent does not stick to 
the plate and is more convenient to use 
than glue. 

CEMENTS: 

Linoleum —Various formulas are used 
for cementing linoleum or other artificial 
flooring material to wood, steel or con- 
crete. The raw materials used are num- 
erous and many different formulas have 
been used. 

I_Rosin 1 part 

Boiled linseed 2 parts 

Ground Cork Vs part 

Cook the rosin and linseed until uni- 
form and mix in the ground cork. This 
gives an excellent adhesive for cementing 
to concrete floor. 

II. — Asphalt 8 parts 

(Residual-M. P. 160-180° F.) 

Varnolene 2 parts 

Clay 10 parts 

IIL— Xylol 1 part 

Naphtha 2 parts 

Cumar 6 parts 

Clay 6 parts 

Dissolve the Cumar in the solvent then 
add the clay and mix thoroughly. 

After the formula is applied, the sol- 
vent is allowed to evaporate before lay- 
ing the linoleum. 

Litharge Glycerine: — A cement suit- 
able for luting, cementing and patching 
which is waterproof is made by mixing 
..together equal parts by weight of 70 
per cent glycerine and litharge, mixing 
into a uniform paste. The cement re- 
mams plastic for 10 minutes and sets to 
a hard mass in 3 hours. This cement 
contracts very little upon setting and 
resists a high temperature. 

China.— First thoroughly clean the 
surfaces to be cemented. The cement is 
prepared by mixing equal parts of mas- 
tic varnish (made by dissolving mastic 
mm in methyl alcohol) and thick isin- 
glass solution. Stir while hot and apply 
immediately. 1 

COLLODION, FLEXIBLE: 

™J hf \ U " S " Ph& rmacopoeia (Tenth He- 
vision) prescribes the following; 



Camphor^ 20 grams 

Castor oil 30 grams 

Collodion, a sufficient 

quantity to make 1000 grams 
Weigh in succession in u dry stoppered 
bottle. Shake until the camphor is dis- 
solved. Keep in closed bottle in a cool 
place away from fire. 

CONCRETE PAINT: 

A good concrete paint may be made 
as follows: — 

Coumarone resin . . 100 pounds 
Boiled linseed oil . . 4 gallons 
Coal-Tar naphtha , 5 gallons 
V. M. & P.. naphtha 15 gallons 
Add Cobalt driers 
Dissolve the coumarone in naphtha, 
add linseed oil and drier. 

DEODORIZING KEROSENE OR 
BENZINE: 

I. — Zinc chloride 2 ounces 

Petrolatum 5 pints 

Agitate thoroughly and then pour 
into a vessel containing quicklime. Mix 
completely, let settle and decant the 
kerosene. 

II. — Calcium chloride .... 2 ounces 

Petrolatum 6 pints 

Add a little hydrochloric acid and 
leave the liquid over the calcium chloride 
until all the chlorine has been expelled. 
Decant. 

Deodorizing and Discolorizing. — 

I. — Kerosene 100 parts 

Litharge lVs parts 

Potassium Hydrox- 
ide 9 parts 

Water 20 parts 

Mix and agitate with water in ™ ri ° uS 
proportions several times, allowing the 
water to settle and decanting. 

There are on the market a number oi 
perfumes which are intended to neutra - 
ize. These can be obtained from tw 
leading perfumery houses and have n ee 
found to be very effective. Not only <*> 
they neutralize the color but also give 
pleasant smell. 

< 

DRY CLEANING: 

Specially prepared tricUorethyleii 
and perchlorethylcne are recent au 
tions to the list of dry-cleaning nu | 
The former is termed non-com&ubi . 
and non-flammable at ordinary temp «■ 
tures, while the latter as "on-com^ 
ble and non-flammable. Trichloran^ 
lene is used in operations where 



DRY CLEANING — HAIR WAVE 



799 



4- T ,r*. does not exceed 80° F. 
fc^lfi Is used in the "closed" sys- 
The These fluids rapidly dissolve fats, 



terns- Th ^ more effective j n re . 
oUs, etc. hible gtains than many 

w0Vin LTnin- solutions. They penetrate 
othe f, fcavi fno odor and do not attack 
^ ll-Z commonly used in the manu- 
the mew* dry-cleaning machines. Be- 
facture . 0 . ^ boiling poin t 3 of 
cause vx , ky evaporation is 

* eS %he dTffus?^ loss i/also lower than 
leS host of other dry-cleaning agents. 
a , Jhhvlene and perchlorethylene 
feSy ^ inexpensively recov- 
m l bv several means— filtration or dis- 
SSftS Se among the most efficient. 

DUSTPROOFING TENNIS 
COURTS: m 

TWo roofing of tennis courts, etc., 
^aSlushed by the use of cal- 
Sum chloride (powder which is sprm- 
Sed over the ground. The chloride acts 
as an absorber of moisture which permits 
the chemical to function as a road 
stabilizer. 

ETCHING PASTE: 

Ammonium 

Fluoride ... 14 grams 

Water 6 cubic centimeters 

Concentrated 

Sulphuric 

Acid 4 cubic centimeters 

Mix with 10 grams of Barites. 
Use a lead container for making this 
paste. A small asbestos brush is em- 
ployed for applying the paste to the 
glass. Instead or" barites, a mixture of 
dextrine and starch may be used together 
with the water and sulphuric acid to 
give a smooth paste which can easily be 
applied to make designs on glassware. 
The paste is permitted to remain on the 
glass for 5 minutes and then wiped off. 

[ FLOOR DRESSING FOR MAR- 
BLE, TERRAZZO AND CON- 
CRETE FLOORS: 

A satisfactory treatment for filling 
Mid rendering impermeable marble, ter- 
razzo and concrete floors may be at- 
tained by the application of a solution of 
14 per cent paraffin and 86 per cent 
Mineral spirits and applying to the floor. 
iWs coating penetrates the pores ana 
d oes not discolor white marble to any 
objectionable extent. After the floor 
**f been cleaned thoroughly the above 
solution is applied with a lamb's wool 
*?°P. The floor may be polished after 
Ttle application of the last coat. 



HAIR BLEACH, BLUE: 

The addition of I part of aniline vio- 
let to 665 parts of water makes an ef- 
fective bleach for bluing yellowish hair. 

HAIR WAVE LOTIONS AND 
POWDERS: 

Hair setting preparations are usually 
made up from vegetable mucilage in 
water together with a preservative and 
perfume. The gums used may be quince 
seed, karaya or tragacanth. 

I. -^Juince seed 20 parts 

"Water 950 parts 

Preservative . 1 part 

Alcohol 5 parts 

Perfume to suit 

The Persian quince seed should be 
used as it is considered to give the most 
mucilage per pound and also is clear 
water-white. Soak the quince seed in 
water warmed to 150° F. and allow to 
stand- for 5 hours permitting to coc* 
slowly. Stir and strain through cheese 
cloth. Then add the alcohol into whicl 
has been dissolved the preservative anc 
perfume. For preservative, the methy. 
or ethyl ester of parahydroxybenzoic acic 

1S A^powder may be made up as followf 

II. — Gum karaya 1000 parts 

Preservative SO parts 

Color (water 

soluble) .... to suit 

Perfume t0 ffl l?, n t 

Alcohol sufficient 

Mix the gum and V™™^'^^ 
form and then incorporate the alconoi 
solSion of perfume and color. All* 
the alcohol to evaporate. 



pounds 
gallons 



S oda and soda ash. d$ 

T.__Chlorme 8 £ oun ds 

Caustic soda 

Soda ash 

Water 

Perm! t the •*«*g£Z$££2£* 
ine the chlorine. ^ u ;!_ b tcmp erature of 
"Advisable to keep » the solution 
the solution below 86 r ^ water 
may be cooled .by 6 concrete or 

against the sides oi ixture will 

earthenware ^^^Ue chlorine 
give a 5 P er 

bleach. also be prep* 1 



800 



LACQUER FORMULATIONS 



II.— Soda ash 6 pounds 

Calicum hypochlorite 10 pounds 

Water . 9 gallons 

This makes a bleach of 5 per cent 
sodium hypochlorite. 
LACQUER FORMULATIONS: 

Involving the Use of Glyceryl 
Phthalate Synthetic Resin.— The incor- 
poration of glyceryl phthalate in a nitro- 
cellulose lacquer gives high gloss and full- 
ness; imparts adhesion, rubbing qualities 
and outdoor durability to a far greater 
extent than that of the original lacquer. 
High solid content lacquers may _ be 
formulated with the use of these resins. 
Top coatings for colored and metallic 
surfaces arc furnished by these lacquers. 
They also produce wood finishes which 
are alcohol-resistant. 

I. — Butanol 5 parts 

Ethyl acetate .... 18 parts 
Butyl acetate .... 12 parts 

Xylol 25 parts 

Toluol 18 parts 

Dibutyl phthalate 4 parts 
% Sec. nitrocellu- 
lose 4-6 parts 

Glyceryl phthalate 

12-14 parts 
The proportion of glyceryl phthalate 
used depends upon the hardness of the 
resin. Clear lacquers for automobiles, 
metals, hardware and silver may be com- 
pounded from the above formula. 

Dibutyl phthalate is recommended as 
a plasticizer and pigments as well as 
filler may be included. Castor oil can be 
used in conjunction with dibutyl phthal- 
ate as a plasticizer. Mineral spirits are 
not recommended for this lacquer. Al- 
cohol-resistant lacquers for bars, wood, 
etc. may be produced by the incorpora- 
tion of these resins. 

Chlorinated Diphenyl Lacquer. — A 
formula suitable for electric wire lac- 
quer is the following: 

L— 16-20 Sec. nitrocellulose 13 ounces 
Tricresyl phosphate ... 12 ounces 
Chlorinated diphenyl . . 7 ounces 

Castor oil 1.7 ounces 

The following solvent is used: 

Ethyl acetate 10 ounces 

Butyl acetate 25 ounces 

£ u * an t o1 6 ounces 

Z° ln0 \ 4.0 ounces 

Benzo1 20 ounces 

Phenolic Resin Solution Lacquer — 

*4he S io„, wa t er , oU and ^resistance 
may be compounded as follows; 



Titanium dioxide .... 50 parts 

100% Oil-soluble resin 75 parts 

3 Sec. nitrocellulose ... 50 parts 
and as solvent 

Ethyl acetate 25 parts 

Butyl acetate 55 parts 

Butanol 15 parts 

Toluol 130 parts 

Dibutyl phthalate 20 parts 

Make a separate solution of the resin 
in Toluol. The nitrocellulose is dissolved 
in the solvents ; mix the titanhmi dioxide 
with some of the nitrocellulose to form 
a paste. Incorporate the remainder of 
the nitrocellulose solution with the tita- 
nium dioxide paste, add the resin solu- 
tion and the dibutyl phthalate. stir 
until uniform, thin with Toluol if neces- 
sary. The above formula gives a white 
lacquer suitable for refrigerators, etc. 
where an easily polished surface is de- 
sired. 

Vinyl Compounds Lacquers. — A suit- 
able lacquer for coating cans which are 
used for containing beer and other food 
products is formulated from the synthet- 
ic resin obtained by the polymerization 
of the vinyl compounds such as vinyl 
chloride, acetate, chloro-acetate and the 
like. These resins are colorless, tasteless 
and odorless. They form tough, stable, 
highly adhesive and chemically resistant 
coatings upon incorporation with any 
cellulose ester. The vinyls are also 
compatible with nitrocellulose. Among 
their many desirable properties is their 
light-resistance. A formula for coating 
cans is the following: 

I— Acetone 60 parts 

Toluol 40 parts 

to which Vinyl resin is added in the 
amount necessary for desired consistency 
Dibutyl Phthalate 
(15% of resin content) 

Cellulose Acetate Lacquer. — 

Cellulose acetate .... 20 parts 
Triphenvlphosphate. . 8 parts 

Chloroform 40 parts 

Acetone 120 parts 

to 25 parts of this solution is added: 

Phenolic resin 30 parts 

Amyl acetate 15 parts 

Ethyl acetate 35 parts 

Acetone 50 parts 

This gives a clear lacquer suitable for 
baking. It is highly resistant to water, 
and may be used outdoors. If desired 
pigments may be included for the pu r * 
pose of giving color effects. 



■ 



LACQUER FORMULATIONS 



801 



automobiles, etc. 



TTnaiTiels - — Enamels designed 
Baking hig h glossy finishes suit- 
for bak^S f . erato rs, automobiles, etc. 

f S Jhthalate resins are dissolved in 
glyceryl P" L of coal-tar naphtha and 
^ fSirits. Pigments such as ti- 
mineral t-nlindinc toner 



and the 



\de toluidinc 
tanium f-V ' orJl ted by thorough grind- 
W e aT V Zne or pebble mill. 



It is to 



i« I ?±lt zinc oxide should be added 
6 '^carefully and used only when pre- 



m c ffl the expert lacquer forraula- 
sCrib A high bake finish is the following: 
t0r - Glycerf lphthalate.. a pounds 

&um oxide'::.. 25 pounds 
? I a naphtha ... 10 pounds 

Mineral spirits .... 10 pounds 

Mineral j fi pounds 

Toluol J- 

^ i 210° F. for 2 hours. 

& tribes of GlyCe ll PMh tr e 
•„ B -ire obtainable on the market; 
ES7 operas are dependent on the 
! v acid base used in the manufacture 
Kid resin. Resins meeting any par- 
ticular requirement can be had; the man- 
Stare r can advise what resin to use. 

Polymerized Acrylic Compounds.— 
Recently there has appeared on the mar- 
ket new resins which are characterized 
lY their transparency, water-white color 
and resistance to discolorations. lney 
have high adhesive properties and are 
resistant to mineral oils and chemicals; 
their elasticity is so great that they are 
comparable to rubber. Films of this 
material are capable of being stretched 
as much as ten times without breaking. 
They are very useful in coating rubber 
articles and other materials wheTe flexi- 
bility is desired. 

They can be compounded with nitro- 
cellulose together with a plasticizer such 
as dibutyl phthalate using ethyl , acetate 
as a solvent. If desired a pigment such 
as Titanium Oxide may be introduced. 

benzyl and Ethyl Cellulose.— New 

impounds from cellulose have been de- 
eped which have been found very use- 
5" 1 in the formulation of lacquers, 
^nzyl and ethvl cellulose lacquers are 
characterized by their extreme flexibility, 
good adhesion, alkali, light and fire 
1? r oofness. 

io j^°/mula employing benzyl cellulose 

]J e ^yl cellulose 3y 4 parts 

toluol . 85 parts 

55f L %l cellosolve ... 15 parts 

Uibutyl phthalate .. % parts 



A formula using ethyl cellulose: 
Ethyl cellulose c , , 

Ethyl ortno benzoyl" ^ 

benzoate c 
Toluol .. R n Par ! S 
Butyl acetate"! 
Ethyl acetate ,\\\\\~ 

Butyi Alcohol IS |2g 

Lacquer Solvents.— The following list 
of solvents, arranged according toboU- 
mg points, should prove of value to the 
torrnulator who is interested in having a 
wide selection: & 

Methyl acetate 56-57° C. 

Acetone 

Methyl alcohol . . ". eg 

Ethyl acetate 

(anhydrous) n 

Ethyl alcohol 78 

Benzene so 

Isopropyl alcohol 82 

Ethylene dichloride ... 84 

Trichlor ethylene 87 

Ethyl propionate 98-102 

Toluene Ill 

Butyl alcohol 117 

Ethyl butyrate 121 

Diethyl carbonate 125 

Butyl acetate 125 

Amyl alcohol 126-132 

Cellosolve 135 

Solvent naphtha 130-160 

Amyl acetate 138 ~;™ 

■tr 1* 14o 

H& naphtha :::::: 150-200 

Ethyl lactate 1 ! 

Hexalin 

Decalin 

Tetralin ■ 

TDl^irizerS— The following 
Lacquer P ast e zers com _ 

a list of plast ewers w 
monly employed m ^^^ poIB1 der. 

SfS£& 1 SU* ?c their 
boding points : . — 
Castor oil • ■ ■ •■ . 209° C 

Camphor (soiia; 220 

Butyl stcarate • 268 

Triacetin • , 280 

Diethyl tartrate •■• m 
Dimethyl ?f}± te ' .... 290 
Diethyl phthalate ••■ s00 

^IXX^' . 800 

T^pfff • : : S 

nibutvl phthalate m 

S amyl phthalate m 



160 
190 

206 



is a 



V 



PAINTS 



PAINT MIXING AND GRINDING. 

As a general rule the ingredients of 
the paint to be made which consist of the 
various colors or pigments are mixed 
toother with the linseed oil in a paste 
blade mixer which is elevated six or 
seven feet above the floor level and fas- 
tened securely on a strong platform. 
Steps lead up to this platform and the 
workman can get to the mLxer at any 
time he chooses. The heavy cans or pails 
or tanks of raw materials are hoisted up 
to the mixer by the use of a pully ar- 
rangement. They are dumped in and 
thoroughly mixed. 

Then the mixture is ready for grind- 
ing and the grinding mill is located on 
a floor just below the mixer so that the 
thick paste can be run through a funnel 
right into the mill below and be ground. 
Various kinds of mills are used by dif- 
ferent manufacturers. There are the 
mills for paste grinding and those for 
liquid grinding, the latter being used for 
thinner paints and the former for 
thicker materials. Two types of mills 
are commonly used today, the Stone or 
sometimes called Burr Mill and the Peb- 
ble or Ball Mill. 

The paint, whichever type of mill it is 
to be ground in must be very finely 
ground and samples can be taken from 
the mill from time to time to determine 
the smoothness. Using the palette or a 
knife one can spread a little on a clean 
piece of glass and allow it to dry and 
by feeling of it and looking at it one can 
readily determine how smooth the par- 
ticles have been ground. It is important 
that the pigment be very smooth al- 
though for some cheap paints manufac- 
turers are not nearly as particular as 
for good paints. Especially is this true 
when grinding a barn paint as com- 
pared with architectural enamel. The 
enamel must be ground finer than even 
any ordinary paint or the oil or varnish 
will not cover over the small unground 
particles. 

There is still another type of mill to 
be mentioned and that is the Roller Mill. 
This mill is used for grinding exceed- 
ingly heavy pastes such as pigment 
pastes, putties, etc., although regular 
commercial putty is usually ground in 
■what we call a putty chaser which really 
is not a grinding machine. Very thick 
pastes can be ground up in a Roller 
Mill. 1 

Different pigments require different 
lengths of time in which to be ground 
for some are harder to crush than oth- 



ers. Experimentation by the mixer will 
soon teach him this. One pigment will 
require more oil to make up a paste than 
others. Different pigments have differ- 
ent oil absorption, consequently y ou 
might mix the same amount of oil -with 
the same amount of both Zinc Oxide and 
Lithophone but you would find that you 
would have a nice smooth workable mass 
with the Zinc Oxide but with the Lith- 
phone you have such a stiff paste that 
you could not work it at all. Because 
Lithophone absorbs more oil than Zinc 
Oxide. 

HOUSE PAINTS. 

House Paints should consist of the 
best materials that can be found but it is 
regrettable that the market is loaded 
with cheap, poor covering paints that 
will not give satisfaction. Since there 
is a demand for a cheap house paint We 
will give herewith a formula for one but 
always recommend the use of the high 
grade material. There is little doubt but 
that the old lead and oil combination 
is better than the factory prepared 
cheap paints but the guaranteed high 
grade machine ground and mixed house 
paint is better than the hand mixed lead 
and oil. It is impossible for one to 
thoroughly mix lead and oil by hand and 
do it as satisfactorily as it can be done 
in the mixing machine. 

Highest Grade White Outside 
Paint. — ■ 

White Lead (Carbonate) 33 pounds 

White Lead (Sulphate). 7 pounds 

Zinc Oxide 26 pounds 

Pure Linseed Oil , 30 pounds 

Turpentine 3 pounds 

Drier 1 pound 

Cheap Grade Outside White- 
White Lead (Carbon- 
ate) 25 pounds 

Zinc Oxide 20 pounds 

Calcium Carbonate ...20 pounds 

Blown Linseed Oil . . . . 25 pounds 

V.M.P. Naptha 10 pounds 

Drier % pound 

Inside White Gloss Paint. — 
White Lead (ground in 

linseed Oil) . 10 pounds 

Zinc Oxide (ground in , 

linseed Oil) 10 pounds 

Pure Linseed Oil Wa F als - 

Turpentine IY2 S* ls - 

Liquid Paint Drier . . Vs P mt 

Preparation of Mixed Paints.— Tl je 
usual custom in factory practice J& 



803 



■ +hr tngments with the oil and 

«. rJ "f smoothness is obtamed A regular 
gire d sid mixer 1S employed after 

the "paste is run into the roller 



85 pounds 
150 pounds 



B«* dlltV UIIaci w ——I j 

heaV ? + hP "uaste is run into the roller 

Dl'l^' 

n0t i S °r and more satisfactory as a paste 
^ C flf runtimes requires more than one 
P ain 5,w in a roller mill. After it is 
grinding _ be reduced although in a 
^Tnaste paint all of the ingredients 
*n belted together in the first place. 

Tnlored Outside and Inside Paints. 

pThits) Simply grind the various pig- 

•nr colors in linseed oil to obtain the 
ment colors Then ^ 

fof L Sr to the white that is nec- 
tary to produce the shade or tint re- 
quired. 

RED BARN PAINTS. 

No. 1 

Spanish Bed Oxide 
Magnesia Silicate 

Linseed Oil ■ 15 gallons 

Mix the above ingredients together 
and then grind for as long a time until 
paint is smooth. This mixture may be 
too thick for satisfactory grinding and 
in such a case add a little V.M.P. 
Naptha until mixture is thin enough to 
grind. After it is finely ground add the 
following: 

Improved Boiled Linseed 
Oil 4 gallons 

Water Solution 4 gallons 

Sipes Japan Oil 15 gallons 

Camphor or Mineral Spir- 
its 5 gallons 

No. 2 

Spanish Red Oxide .... 100 pounds 

Calcium Carbonate 80 pounds 

Magnesia Silicate 60 pounds 

Linseed Oil 13 gallons 

Thin the linseed oil down to Naptha, 
Varnolene or turpentine and then mix 
tb e above ingredients and grind in the 
\y^\ Tni11, After the y are ground add 
e f °Uowing ingredients: 

Improved Linseed Oil 24 gallons 

||E>es Japan Oil 5 gallons 

Naptha, V.M.P. ...... 2% gallons 

Water Solution (tree 
alkali) 5 



ns 



gallo 

Btrci° Caust ic in the water is plenty 
af t "S enough. Add the water solution 
been T? 24 gallons of linseed oil has 
een added and not before. 



RUST AND WEATHER PROOF 
PAINTS. 

Many experiments have been made, 
trying to find a combination of materials 
that would produce a paint which would 
to a great degree withstand the salt air, 
a product that could be used on smoke 
stacks on the waterfronts, etc. Up to 
the present time the best known for- 
mulas for a paint to give the desired 
results and stand the exposure are as 
follows ; 

Black Paint 

Asbestine 20 pounds 

Red Lead 25 pounds 

Black Lead 10 pounds 

Blown Fish Oil 40 gallons 

V. M. & P. Naptha. . . 20 gallons 
Liquid Cobalt Drier . . % gallon 
(more or less as required) 

Dark Gray Paint 

Asbestine 76 pounds 

White Lead 90 pounds 

Blue Lead 80 pounds 

Zinc Oxide 10 pounds 

Blown Fish Oil ISO gallons 

Naptha or Mineral Spir- 
its as desired 90 gallons 

Liquid Cobalt Drier . . W2 gallons 
(more or less as required) 

The pigments are mixed together an 
ground in a roller or stone mill until t 
necessary smoothness is obtained. As 
rule the same smoothness is not require 
as in an house paint since this class of 
paint is used on outside, rough work, 
ft is understood that the pigments are 
Ground in the fish oil. More or less fish 
S Tan be added or deducted as desired, 
likewise with the thinner and drier. 
ThTtoSai k staple suggestive »» 
since there is veryw.de range of re 

same, 

VARNISH AND OIL ENAMEL" 
AND UNDERCOATS. 

Light Amherol F-7 ■ - 33 
Extra Light Amberol ^ 

China Wood Oil.- ■■■■ l » 
Bodied Linseed Oil . . . °~ ovn ds 

Sugar of Lead^ y* v t 

Liquid Cobalt Drier ..I 1 ua 
V.M.P. Naptha or u 
Mineral Thinners ...80 



poun 

pounds 
gallons 
gallons 



lH.JJUt»"^ 

Into . gallon of ^SX^, 




804* 



PAINTS 



the order 



nvide and * pounds Titanox. Amounts 
Sn be ™r ic d P a cc 0 rding to density and 
Covering capacity of enamel desired. For 
undercoats increase the amount of pig- 
ment to 10 pounds consisting of the loi 
SSniT 2 Pounds Calcium Carbonate 8 
rounds Lithophone. AH products must 
• ^bleached with Blue Pigment, by tint- 

^ Some slower drying, easier flowing 
architectural enamels are made simply 
by grinding. 

ROOFING PAINTS. 
Red Liquid Asbestos Coatingf.— 
P - tr h .... 50 pounds 

Na P tha'(* 9 ' de S ree > ■-■ 24, gallons 
Aluminum Steareate . . 2 pounds 
Bright Red Oxide (Yel- 

low tone) 100 pounds 

Fibrous Asbestos 25 pounds 

Blown Linseed Oil ... - 8 gallons 

Kerosene 4 gallons 

V. M. & P. Naptha or 

Gasoline ™ S allons 

Tins makes a batch of 52 gallons 
Melt pitch in iron varnish pot until it 
is fluid. Remove from the fire and stir 
in one ingredient at a time in 
given in formula, very slowly. 

Black Liquid Asbestos Coating. — 

Liquid Coal Tar 50 gallons 

Fibrous Asbestos 40 pounds 

Solvent Naptha (Straw 

Color) 5 gallons 

Blown Linseed Oil 2 gallons 

This makes a batch amounting to 53 
gallons. Liquid coal tar should be free 
from ammonia and water. If not put it 
in pot and slowly raise temperature to 
250° F. and hold there until fumes are 
gone. Mix in the asbestos. GAUTION. 
Take away from the fire when mixing or 
adding Naptha or Gasoline. 

DUST COLOR PAINT FOR 
FLOORS, ETC. 

5 gallons Boiled Linseed Oil 
10 gallons Natural Gum Varnish 
5 gallons Japan Dryer 
5 gallons Turpentine 

5 gallons V. M. & P. Naptha 
100 pounds Zinc White in Oil 
100 pounds White Lead in Oil 

3 pounds Black Color No. 1 

6 pounds Red Color No. 1 
20 pounds Ochre Color No. 1 
10 pounds Green Color No. 1 



Formula for Colors.— 

Black Color No. 1: 
25 gallons Lamp Black in Oil 

2Y& gallons Linseed Oil 
% gallon V. M. & P. Naptha 

1 pint Liquid Paint Drier 

Red Color No. 1: 
25 pounds Red Oxide in Oil 
(light) 

3 gallons Linseed Oil 
Vk gallon V. M. & P. Naptha 

1 pint Liquid Drier 

Ochre Color No. 1: 
25 pounds Ochre in Oil (French) 

4 gallons Linseed Oil 
y 4 gallon V. M. & P. Naptha 

1 pint Liquid Drier 

Green Color No. 1 : 
25 pounds Medium Chrome Green 
in Oil 

5 gallons raw Linseed Oil 

% gallon V. M. & P. Naptha 
1 pint Liquid Drier 

You can take a mixture of White Lead 
or Zinc as a base and by intermixing 
these various colors can get a paint with 
any desired shade. 

To Get More Gloss and Body in 
Paints. — ■ 

By passing air through linseed and 
other oils what is known as Blown Oil 
is obtained. It appears to have more 
body but in reality this is false for it 
does not have. It does produce a paint 
with more gloss and one which will dry 
more rapidly and is being used very 
extensively today by leading paint man- 
ufacturers. 



TOUCH UP BLACK. 

The simplest way to make up a touch 
up Black is to purchase a high grade 
quality of clear outside coach varnisn, 
one that will stand the weather fairly 
well. There are any number of Ornish 
makers who will sell you very reasonably 
what you need. 

If you get it in five gallon cans you 
can get a real good FOUR 
Varnish (dries in four hours) 1° 
around $1.25 a gallon. To this yoj 
simplv add from five to eight ounces o 
Carbon Black ground fine in Japan anj 
stir it up and this will give you a *°. u 
up Black. This will dry quicker than tou 
hours because the pigment causes 
film to dry faster. It actually sett i ' F 
in an hour so that in that amount of ti 
it will be practically dust free. V 



PAINTS 



805 



t _ ofld from five to eight ounces on 
Slack to each gallon of varnish.) 

TOP DRESSINGS. 

There are two kinds particularly of 
j i J nffS , Lacquer Type and Varnish 
S From these types hundreds of 
formulas originate, some good and some 
poor. 

VARNISH TYPE DRESSING. 

To a gallon of LONG OIL OUTSIDE 
SPAR Varnish add 6 ounces of Carbon 
Slack ground in Japan. Some finishers 

dd a Ys P int of linseed oil t0 this but 
ff your varnish Is long in oil enough you 
need not do this. The linseed or china 
wood oil gives the film more flexibility 
as does Castor Oil. Soya Bean and 
Fish Oil are also good especially the lat- 
ter but it smells too much. The higher 
the gloss you want the less Black you 
add. 

LACQUER TYPE DRESSING. 

It's cheaper to buy a ready made Lac- 
quer Solution than to make it yourself 
if you just are going to make up some 
top dressings. Get the following for- 
mulas: 10 ounces Cotton, 8 ounces Ester 
Gum in a gallon of 25% Butyl Acetate, 
35% Butyl Alcohol, 40% Toluol. To this 
add 3 or 3% ounces finely ground Car- 
bon Black. Then after you have added 
the Black and stirred it in with a gallon 
of Clear Lacquer, you add Yi pint lin- 
seed or china wood oil to give the film 
flexibility. Castor Oil is sometimes used 
but is not so good for out door exposure. 

COMMERCIAL PUTTY. 

350 pounds Putty "Whiting 
450 pounds Marble Dust 
12y 2 gallons Putty Oil 

Mix thoroughly in a putty chaser for 
wge quantities." Putty Oil consists of 
gallons Eaw Linseed Oil, 11 gallons 
araffi ne 0 il, i/ z gallon Japan Oil. This 
s similar to all well known cheap putties 
Put out by large paint manufacturers. 

°IL STAINS: 
Early English Oil Stain.— 
Oil Black 
Oil Brown 
Oil Yellow 



solved Then add the linseed oil and 
when it is cooled off the naptha is added. 
Be very careful to avoid a fire when 
heating the turpentine. 

Antwerp Oil Stain.— 

Oil Black 2 

Oil Yellow .... a 

Oil Bed 37 

Linseed Oil . . . H 

Turpentine 17 

Naptha 



Linseed Od 
(Pure) . 
turpentine 
Naptha 

The 



10 ounces 
% ounce 
1 ounce 



16 ounces (Liquid) 
10 ounces 
Yz gallon 



ounces 
drams 
grains 
liquid 
liquid 
gallon 



ounces 
ounces 



Prepare in the same manner as direc- 
tions given above. 



turpentine is heated, preferably 
AVft tcr bath, and the colors are dis-* 



Fumed Oak Oil Stain.— 

Oil Brown 15 

Oil Black % 

Oil Mahogany . % 

Benzol % 



Acetone 



ounces 

ounce 

ounce 

pint 

ounce 



WATER STAINS. 

There are three classes of stains mos 
commonly used, Oil, "Water and Spiri 
While Oil Stains are used greatly by t' 
painters and decorators, Water Sta" 
are used almost entirely by furnitur 
and other manufacturers of products r 
quiring stains. It will not be out 
place to list a few Water Stains. Wate 
soluble colors are of course used 
Water Stains. 



Mahogany Stain-Water — 

Brown Mahogany ? 

Red Mahogany 

Water 



4 

1% 



ounc 
gallo 

oun 



Adam Brown Mahogany — 

Brown Mahogany 1 

Jet Black Nigrosme..... % oun 
Bichromate of Potash. . . Ys oun 



Antique Mahogany — 

Mahogany Brown .... 

Mahogany Bed ...... 

Potassium Bichromate 
Water ; " 

mi,„_„ are numerous antique 
qhere are llw ? . _ e j S US u 
. _ rni 1P wood in this caae « 
anies. 1-Jie «uuu , ^aste filler a 

regular manner. 
Mahogany Water Stain for Birch. 

Brown Mahogany fi Qun 

■Red Mahogany 8 quilT 

Water 

UsuaUy the ^zgHSEtS- 

weak lye solution sanaeu, 
--'ieu. 



NEW DISCOVERIES IN PHOTOGRAPHY 



Prepared by 
ADRIAN and JEANNETTE LEROY 
of the 

International Research Laboratories 
1612 Neptune Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 



DEFECTS IN PHOTOGRAPHIC 
WORK: 

The professional, as well as the ama- 
teur, sometimes have noticed that dur- 
ing their work, certain photographic de- 
fects make their appearance. It is 
sometimes hard to ascertain the course 
of these defects. We have therefore 
prepared a very simple system of analy- 
sis, for example: 

Different Kinds of Stains. — A whit- 
ish, powdery scum which appears on the 
negative after fixing, may be a precipita- 
tion of hypo, and can be removed simply 
by rewashing the negative very care- 
fully. If this does not remove it, it is 
probably a precipitation of aluminum 
sulphite sludge in the use of an alum- 
acid fixing in which the alkaline devel- 
oper carried into the bath has neutralized 
the acid content. This can usually be 
removed by soaking the plate or film 
in a 5 per cent bath of sodium carbonate 
and washing thoroughly. Should the tem- 
perature be above 65° F., it is best to 
harden the film first in a 3 per cent solu- 
tion of formalin and then wash it before 
using the sodium carbonate bath. 

Yellowish White Opalescence. — This 
gives the negative an appearance of be- 
ing made on white celluloid or opal 
glass. This may be the result of a 
warm hypo bath, or a bath containing 
too little sulphite, or too much acid. A 
fresh sulphur stain of this kind can be 
removed by first soaking the negative 
in a 8 per cent solution of a formalin 
to harden the film, for 2 or 3 minutes, 
then by washing it thoroughly and so ak- 
in ^ in a 10 per cent solution of sodium 
sulphite at a temperature of 100° to 
120° F. 



Silvery White Opalescence. — This is 
sometimes a result of a negative which 
is dried by means of denatured alcohol 
with the aid of a heat, and is usually 
removed very easily by rewashing the 
negative with water and drying it at a 
normal temperature. The same method 
will remove the opalescence if it is 
caused too strong a hypo or acid con- 
tent in a fixing bath. If stains are due 
to the presence of iron particles in the 
fixing bath, indelible pencil marks, ani- 
line dyes, etc., they are best removed by 
bleaching the negative first, and then 
redeveloping it by any of the methods 
described on these pages. 

How to Remove Hypo from a Nega- 
tive. — It is most important that the film, 
after the development, should be per- 
fectly free from any trace of hypo. The 
best way to insure this is to apply » 
weak solution of potassium permangan- 
ate to the film repeatedly. In order to 
prepare a sufficient vohime of perman- 
ganate solution, dissolve 8 grains of po- 
tassium permanganate in 128 ounces of 
water. After fixing and rinsing the 
negative, soak it in a few ounces or 
permanganate solution. When the P' 11 *" 
ish color disappears, this will show the 
presence of hypo in the film. The faded 
solution should be poured off, and fresh 
solution should be poured over the nega- 
tive. This method should be repeated 
about six times, or until the perman- 
ganate solution no longer loses its pu» 
color, which will prove that no trace ot 
hypo remains in the film. The way to 
obtain the best results with this method 
is to use a weak solution as given above, 

'ckiy- 



and to change the solution in use quic klj 
Tf you allow the negative to remain i f 



SOfi 



ii v u li auow tne negative xo tciu*«" 
faded solution, brown stains will usually 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



, hat is why this method neces- 
appv— - ' freauen t and quick changes 
the removal of the hypo The 
during g» advise d should not take 
.'Kan ten minutes. 

Permanganate 



How q ^ins Re r™uTting from "undis- 

St f irl |'^ermunganate crystals in the 

solv^ perni ^ ^ renioV ed by soak- 

negative > " .. for a few minutes in the 
jugthenegatve^ 2Q 

following o'^^o sulphite 
lacia l acetic acid ^ 

Speared, wash the negative 

tfdl and dry. 

• MAo-atives — This has many 
JE* Sc N bSw~to remedy this is 
f if™ mate the cause. Spots can he 
t0 dim mate of an etching 

?T of can he Spotted" with a touch 
inr on the tip of a brush. Although 
! ifSffl eliminate these spots, it is best 
to prevent them entirely. 

Cnt* Which are Clear and Trans- 

oa reC-These spots are sharply denned 
S ""regular in shape, and are caused 
of dust Wh is on the surface of the 
3m during its exposure. _ Dark spots are 
caused by dust particles m the film, usu- 
ally particles of black enamel or metal 
from the metal sheaths in which cut 
films and plates are carried. Both varie- 
ties are usually found in negatives made 
on plates and films which are carried 
on motor and cycling trips. When work- 
ing under such conditions, the best way 
to keep the camera, sheaths, holders and 
magazines free from dust, is to use a 
slightly dampened or chemically pre- 
pared dustless cloth very carefully^ be- 
fore filling the holders or putting m a 
new film spool. 

Spots of Angular Shape —These are 
caused by scum which sometimes torms> 
on the surface of the developing solu- 
tion. When this is disturbed, it breaks 
up into small angular particles, whicn 
cung to the film, causing the spots des- 
cribed. 

Small Transparent Holes —These are 
circular in shape with a clearly detmea 
outline, and are due to air-pockets which 
nave remained on the film during tlie 
development. If they are removed dur- 
ing the course of development, they 
usually leave their impressions, not very 
clearly outlined but requiring attention 
^ preparing the negative for printing. 
These air-pockets are caused by diluting 
the developing solution with tap water, 
u > actively rocking the tray, or tlie 



unskillful immersion of plates in a tank. 
It is advisable to keep a bottle of boiled 
water at hand for diluting developing 
solutions, and to lightly swab the film 
surface with a wet pad of cotton-wool 
right after immersing the plate or film in 
the developer. If air-pockets remain 
throughout the development and fixation, 
there is usually a little opaque center to 
the transparent spot, which is due to un- 
dissolved silver bromide. Lift this out 
with the knife and fill the hole with 
color matching the rest of the negative. 

Small Dark Spots— These are often 
due to particles of chemical dust or dry 
developer falling on the film during de- 
velopment, or to undissolved particles of 
the developer in the developing solution. 
This will usually happen when the devel- 
oping agent is added "dry" just before 
use, as in the case of pyro and amidol 
developers. The sludge found in devel- 
oping solutions after repeated _ use, 
sometimes gives rise to dark spots in th 
negative, as iron rust will from wate 
supply pipes. If you use care an 
cleanliness in the use of solutions, tray 
and in mixing developers 
room, you will without a doubt preven 
such troubles. 

Yellow or Brown Spots.-These ar 
earned by air-pockets '^S"}^ 
film during fixation, and can usually C 
removed by refixing the plate or -ffln 
a freshly prepared &™Sj a £ m £ s g i 
badly blotched, should be «^rsea 

I clewing ^^LV^f 
S&XVoUVSwill completely 
remove the dark spots. 



Minute B-rk Streaks 



-These streaks 



near the edge ot ti e m^ ^ _ 

cate the leakage of lignt ir ^ 

quite close to the plate or iu 

Imera back or the ■ * ot w flttfag f 

holder is fitted, or in t streak g 

bolder itself. ^s«aiiy and 



are scattered m a D-u ^ 

clearly show the > ag can be a * 
leakage Thcde ted ve 

certained upon care UneS 

Fine Scratches or LjjJ. a ro ilfilm 
running from <»* * £ caused by dust 
or fihnpack negatives ar ^ p. 

Js^mont oft- found 
remedy. This cu geQ s ^ ottt am* 

in ne8 t« often £ tha " r °"" 
occur more 
film negatives. 



T^—Fof? is a more or less dense 
vcffi or deposit over the negative 
Kef which is easily distinguished troci 
the less severe veiling or flattening of 
the contrasts in the negative resulting 
from over-exposure and under-develop- 
ment, may be general or local, and be 
due to light or chemical action. 

Diffused Light Fog.— This fog or 
veil which covers the whole negative and 
which is fairly even in density, may be 
caused by dust or moisture on the lens 
scattering the light passed by the lens 
reflections from the camera bellows when 
a large aperture lens of greater covering 
power than is required by the plate is 
used; light glare from the use of a large 
aperture lens with little or no front 
flange or hood protection in a strong 
liriit- pinholes or minute breaks m the 
bellows of the camera or light leaking 
into the camera through an dl-ntting 
front board or lens flange, or at the 
space between the camera back and the 
plateholder or fllmpack adapter or the 
back cover of a rollfilm camera. If the 
fog is centered on the plate or film in 
the form of a vignetted disk, this may 
be the result of an imperfectly closing 
shutter resulting from dust between the 
shutter leaves plus strong direct light. 
A circular patch of fog, due to lens flare, 
sometimes appear in negatives made 
against the light, as in an interior where 
the lens faces dark detail between two 
windows, If using a lens hood does not 
eliminate this fault, the lens should be 
returned to the maker for examination. 
General light fog as ahove described, 
due to light leakage in the camera, is 
clearly shown by the edges of the plate 
or film, protected by the rebate of the 
holder or sheath, remaining clear and 
free from the defect in development. 

Local and Direct Fog. — This fog is 
very often so dense that it blots out the 
image where it strikes the plate. This 
usually comes from light leaking through 
a hole or defect in the plate box or film 
package, from defective plateholders or 
fllmpack cases, or from rough handling 
°* nbnpacks or carelessness in loading 
the filmspool in the camera in bright 
light or preparing the film for develop- 
ment. In the last two instances, the 
light creeps in at the edges of the film, 
ana the direction of the fog streak 
plainly shows its origin. When the f off 
patch begins at the lower edge of the 
negative and spreads with decreasing 
density, this shows that light reached 
ftlm wll cn the slide of the plate 



holder was roughly withdrawn or rein- 
serted after exposure, the velvcted light- 
stop being forced apart by the twist 
given to the slide. Similarly a sharply 
defined light patch on a plate negative 
indicates a small hole or crack in the 
holder slide. Giving an "instantaneous" 
exposure with the shutter set at "time" 
or "bulb"; using a much larger lens 
aperture instead of the small aperture 
for which the exposure was calculated; 
and exposing the film to strong light 
between development and fixing, are 
other causes of general light fog. 

Chemical Fog. — This fog is a thick 
veil which covers the whole plate or film, 
setting in during development, and may 
be due to many causes; such as metal 
magazines or holders varnished with a 
substance containing turpentine or other 
destructive varnishes ; an unsafe dark- 
room ligbt, due to the leakage of white 
light in the room while the plates or 
films are being loaded or developed, or 
dye which has faded; the use of a devel- 
oper at too high a temperature in devel- 
opment, or a developer containing 
caustic or other alkali in excess, or too 
large an amount of sodium sulphite in 
the developer, or the mixing of the 
developing solution while the plate is 
being developed, or the contamination 
of the developing solution with hypo or 
from old or cracked or unclean trays. 
Plates and films which have been stored 
in a warm, damp basement, are subject 
to various gases which are very liable to 
show chemical fog, in development. 

Troubles Resulting from Hot Weath- 
er. — Faults such as frilling, reticulation, 
graining, mottling, the softening or ac- 
tual running of the film, or the sudden 
appearance of a crop of minute blisters, 
are difficult to remedy, but they can be 
easily avoided by a little thought and 
care 'in negative making during the Slim- 
mer months or under tropical conditions. 

Frilling— This is the separation of 
small areas of the film from its support- 
ing base, almost always at the edges 01 
the picture image. Some plates are mo 
prone to this fault than others, but : mo* 
plates will frill in very hot weather 
carelesslv handled with warm fingers, ^ 
if subjected to long immersion in 
warm solution and then transferred * 
much colder solution, or transfer ^ 
from a strongly alkaline developer 
a cold acid fixing bath, or if Ie " tcr 
wash under a tap so that the w 
strikes it edgewise. To prevent fnin b 



avoid working in a warm 



ciarkroonij 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



809 



1 ;red development and the use 
avoid Pf ol< £| solutions strongly alkaline 
of develop nS w . th a caustic aIkallj see 

or m a , dc ipveloPinff solutions, hardener, 
that the d^elopj g^ ^ ^ 

¥1 the same temperature, not over 
ab0 ^ Tn cases where you may be skepti- 
60 F ' on umidol developer thus avoid- 
ed use an ^ - n the development 

in S * thP or if an alkaline developer is 
alt T Soy a strong solution and 
used, crnj . development accord- 

sh0 , rten Do not touch the surface of the 
ingly- ^ fingers. It is always ad- 
V\l X uTe a hardening hath between 
visable to U!rtS , f ine 4 n hot weather. 

deT f PI b e ath i made up of 1 ounce of 
^ttsmm ch^ome alum^issolvcd in 32 
Snnces oT water. If this alum bath gives 
S to mottled, leathery markings m the 
" se 5im ctitute a bath made up of 1 
See o >t malin in 20 ounces of water 
if r the plate, in either case a short 
wK after development, soak it m the 
Smug bath for three minutes again 
Eg it before placing it m the acid 
Sag bath-which is always preferable 
to a plain fixing bath in hot weather. 

Mottling —The appearance of irregu- 
lar slmpel patches, lighter in density 
than the rest of the film, is more apt to 
appear in hot weather development than 
at other seasons. This is caused by the 
failure to keep the developer moving 
over the whole film, or by adding new 
developer or dry pyro to the working 
solution in the tray during development. 

Reticulation.— Graining of the ftlra is 
caused by transferring the plate or mm 
from a cool solution, or a hardener, to 
a warm solution, as in washing the plate 
in water warmer than the fixing bath. 
Too much washing, or the use of too 
Tapid a stream of water in a wann dark- 
room will sometimes cause this trouble. 



Blistering. Covering the image with 
a network of minute blisters, comes from 
the same causes outlined above, and is 
often a result of putting the plate to 
dry without first wiping the surface witn 
a semi-dry swab of cotton-wool, to re- 
move some of the over-abundant wet- 
ness of the film. 

The Fixing Bath.— This needs careful 
attention in the summertime, and snouiu 
be renewed quickly as soon as it appears 
Jo be weakening, which can be ascer- 
tained by its slow action. A weak nxing 
bath causes many troubles; mottling, 
^even density patches, brown mark- 
m gs, and etc. Do not try to strengthen 



an old fixing bath by adding fresh hypo. 
Make up a fresh bath. A good acid fix- 
ing bath for the summer is made up as 
follows : Mix in the order given. Water, 
100 ounces j sulphuric acid, 3 drams 
(added a few drops at a time) ; sodium 
sulphite (cryst.), 4 ounces. When thor- 
oughly dissolved, add chrome alum 2 
ounces, previously dissolved in 20 ounces 
of water. Finally make the bulk of the 
bath up to 160 ounces by adding water. 
Let the negative remain in this fixing 
bath fully 15 minutes after the film is 
completely cleared. 

Double Exposures. — Sometimes one 
is surprised to find two separate and 
distinct picture images on the same 
plate or film; a house with a boat sail- 
ing serenely across it; a bridge with 
a house right in the middle of it. This 
mistake was simply caused when yo 
forgot to change the plate by reversin- 
the holder if double plateholders are i 
use, or did not put in a new holder i 
single holders are used; or forget to pi 
a new plate or film into position if yo 
use a filmpack, or neglected to wind 
new film into position if you use a rol 
film camera. One is very apt to ove 
look this vital detail when ones atte 
tion is distracted right after an exp 
sure. 

The Kemedy.-In the case ! of the ro 
film camera, just get into the habit 
wSding a new film into position ngh 
™cr each exposure or, when 
filmpack in the camera, pnll f n ew mm 
position Xpter 
posure and before repi^-i u in the 

| this failure ™f ^ "exposed" 

holder slide with the - J 0 J Te 

and to replace the sgae £ feW 

with this notice on the t ch 



plateholders nave and . 

\, heTe the side is glide - s 

locks the exposed plate^ ne ^ 

replaced after expos ure & ^ 
holder, however, does u 

of this sort, ^ h 

The B / ank *^ T apicture imlge, result- 
eives no trace of a pictu Thig majr 

fZ in a blank P^ te °* £ m If we are 
of due to ^veral caus^ ed tQ 

using ^^f^pWdtt^i ox we 
draw the slide .of twp d 
mEL y have ^f/S w [ t h the backed 
Sc plate into the holder w ^ ug . 

a magazine pl* te 



carrying the plate may have dropped 
into the well of the base before exposure, 
in which case we will probably have a 
double exposure on the next following 
plate in the series. If we are using a 
nlmpack, we may have pulled two tabs, 
and so put an exposed plate in the back 
ready for development before exposing. 
If it is a rollfllm camera with an unex- 
posed section of film ready for exposure, 
a rewinding fust before exposure will 
have the same result. The only time to 
•wind a new section of film ready for 
exposure is after each succeeding ex- 
posure has been made. Whether plates 
or films are in use the failure of the 
Shutter to open will give us a blank 
plate or film, which failure may be due 
to the mechanism of the shutter or lack 
of action in the release. Finally, a devel- 
oper compounded without some essential 
chemical, such as an alkali or the devel- 
oping agent Itself, will give us a blank. 

To Err is Human —Think first be- 
fore you work. Plan your work. Never 
run until you get on the right road be- 
cause you may have to go back a long 
way. 

DEVELOPERS 

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEVELOPING: 

Developing is perhaps the most im- 
portant as well as the most interesting 
part of photography. 

Professor Einstein once stated that it 
is more valuable and more important to 
know "WHY" you put the various in- 
gredients in a pot than to just know 
"HOW" to put them in; and it is true, 
for when one knows "WHY" they are 
put in, he then has the controlling factor 
in his hand, and can, at will, change the 
formulas with perfect safety to suit any 
particular or unusual experiment. 

It is for this reason that we first ex- 
plain "why" all the ingredients are 
needed for developing, and what their 
r6 x?l ° r combined actions are. 

When a film is exposed to an object 
through the lens of a camera, some ac- 
tion takes place on the surface of the 
mm. The action is very minute and 
cannot be seen by the naked eye or even 
through a microscope, for the image 
taken up" by the silvers in the emulsion 
f ^viable, and is photo graphical^ 

K { '^ent Thiriatent 
Image is brought into visibility by certain 

SSwft£ S f°n Uti ° n 1 - The c£m ^S Tare 
T 1 ™, lnt0 four classes, namelv first 

due ^^hed P (E \ lka . U) 5 & ^e' 

aucer- (the developing agent) ; third, the 



"Restrainer" (bromides) ; fourth, the 
"Preserver" (sulphites). 

The exposure of the film to light 
merely starts what is called a primary 
"reduction" which is invisible, as has 
been stated, and this action started by 
the light must be carried on and com- 
pleted by the chemicals in the developing 
solution to form a visible image of black 
silver. 

The "Pioneer" is the alkali which may 
come in the form of sodium carbonate or 
a similar salt. The alkali precedes the 
actions of the other chemicals in the 
solution and attacks the gelatin that 
embodies the silver halides (the light 
sensitive silver salts). It causes the gel- 
atin to soften and swell, enabling the 
developing agents to penetrate to the 
silver halide particles embedded in the 
gelatine. These developing agents are 
salts in the solution that have the power 
to force the silver to break its bond with 
the halide and become metallic silver. 
This change is termed "reduction." De- 
veloping agents affect all silver halide 
particles alike, whether they are partially 
reduced by light or not, and tend to 
reduce them all to metallic silver. To 
prevent this, a restrain er, (a bromide 
salt) is added. This salt makes the 
developer sensitive to just the silver 
halides in the image. 

It is well to remember that a reducing 
agent will attack all the silver halides in 
the emulsion and cause them to blacken 
without regard for the latent image al- 
ready formed by the light through the 
camera lens. To make the reducing 
agent selective, that is to limit its action 
to only those silver halides in the latent 
image, a restraining chemical is mixed 
with the solution. The rcstrainer slows 
up the reducing action of the developing 
agent and gives the photographer op- 
portunity to control the developing to 
a certain extent. 

There are a large number of salts cap- 
able of reducing silver salts but they 
cannot all be used because they cannot 
be made selective nor the speed of re- 
duction be controlled. Of the reducing 
agents that can be controlled and made 
selective, the most commonly used a 
pyro, hydroquinonc, metol, and amidol- 
Thev all combine readily with (*xj& D * 
but as they are f airlv neutral salts, tflcy 
will not act except in an alkaline _ son - 
tion. Thus, we see that the alkali in tn 
developer has two distinct actions, v ■> 
softening the gelatin, and furnishing w 
alkalinity so that the reducing a ^ ce 
might combine with oxygen and red 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



811 



halicies. The most commmon 
V* r -n developing formulas is sodium 
a lkali i« potassium carbonate 13 
carb0 ,"^" used, and for extreme con- 
sotoetim^ her e ffects sodium hydrox- 
trast anu ^ flncr gra i nj guC h as n 

ide ^aTv for motion picture and minia 
necessary *_« „ rrtl>b . A m nder alkali l; 



is 



fTcZerl work, a milder alkali is 
ture caro*_ ^ gcnera n y sodium borate. 
a V.rong alkali or an excess tends to 
A I «n the action of the reducing 
Sp6 f to such an extent that it is neces- 
ag ent restrainer to prevent 

£ fCt<a reduction known as "fog" 
Stse restrainers are most generally am- 
«mm or potassium bromides, but 
m mSes a chromium salt is used by 
^erimenters. These restrained m- 
S££ the selectivity of the developer 
W I at the same time larger amounts of 
alali may he added to further increase 
the speed of the developer m 

We now understand that a deve oping 
solution must contain a "reducer, and 
an alkaline agent to permit its action by 
Cftening the gelatin. Then too, it must 
contain a restraining agent which pio- 
tects the unaffected^ silver halides from 
reducing or blackening. i 

There is, however, another important 
point in developers that we must not 
overlook. All the above mentioned in- 
gredients in the developers would last 
but a few hours in solution unless a 
"preserver" was added. All the reduc- 
ing agents have an affinity for the oxy- 
gen of the air, which becomes dissolved 
in the water, and thus oxidation takes 
place, the solution becomes discolored, 
and all the prints or negatives developed 
in such a solution are stained and 
ruined. 

Sodium Sulphite has even a greater 
affinity for oxygen than any of the other 
ingredients in developers, and yet it is 
used as a preserver. It acts as a pre- 
server by taking the oxygen from the 
solution and forming sodium sulphate, 
thereby protecting the solution from 
deterioration but at the same time tak- 
ing no part at all in the chemical action 
of developing. There are other preserv- 
ing agents used in developing solutions 
ia place of sodium sulphite, these being, 
generally, bisulphites or metabisulphites 
of potassium or sodium. 

We have mentioned all these things to 
teach yon. wn y the various ingredients 
are used in developers, and when you are 
fading over the formulas given for de- 
veloper^ you w nj readily understand why 
!J e various chemicals are used and what 
tfl eir respective actions and effects will 



be. Before entering into the formulas, 
here is a "trouble chart" that will enable 
you to locate the causes of your troubles 
in defective developing. 

TROUBLE CHART: 

Fogging. — Caused by accidental ex- 
posure of the paper or film to actinic 
light; or, deterioration of the paper or 
film through age (look foT the expiration 
date on the box) ; or, insufficient bromide 
in the developer ; or, too much carbonate 
in the developer, thus causing an over- 
reduction of the silver salts (the addition 
of more bromide will overcome this) ; or, 
impure chemicals (always buy chemicals 
that are prepared especially for photo- 
graphic use; or, improper mixing of the 
chemicals in the solution. Be sure you 
add the chemicals in the OTder in which 
they are given in the formula. The use 
of warm water aids in dissolving the 
chemicals, but heat accelerates their de- 
composition and it must be remembered 
that no formula should be mixed with 
water warmer than 125° F. unless other 
Wise specified in the formula. 

Discolored Developing Solutions. 

Insufficient sulphite to prevent oxidation 
or, too much carbonate, impurity of in 
gredients, water too hot when mixing 
Ltcr containing iron salts in solution 
or chemicals added in the wrong ord 
when mixing. 

White Sediment Forming in Dey 
™_The most common cause for t 
Seethe adding too much s 
r.Mie before the metol (Elon or 

upon standing. »™ ™ d be s 
before adding another 

, e in a wa 



,f — One can always 

CryS ^Tat£ to dissolve 

more solid matter i ^ 

solution than in a coiau satura tion 
solution that was near ^ ft 
so warm will sun „, vsta ls. 



solution that wa & * - paSS it upon 
point while Med with crystals. 

Pooling and v^*^ made so near 
Often stock solutes c0 

5ency of the solution. 



812 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



Frilling and Blistering.— This is gen- 
erally caused either by the excess of 
alkali In the developer, or the high tem- 
perature of the solutions through which 
the films pass. If you are in hot climate, 
U i, advisable to use the f Tropical De- 
veloper, formula D.13 » Another method 
is to treat the films, papers, and plates 
with an 8 per cent solution of formalin 
for 2 or 3 minutes before putting into 
the developer. Of course, this must be 
done in a darkroom. In the case of too 
much or too strong an alkali, it is best to 
mix proper solutions and discard the old. 
The developing solutions should never 
xceed 73° F. while in use. 
Improper Mixingf— The chemicals 
should be mixed in the order stated m 
the formula as has been stated before, 
but as this is of such signal importance, 
it hears repeating. Also they should 
not be mixed in water warmer than 
125° F. unless the formula specifics it. 
The preserver must always be added be- 
fore the alkali. If this is not done the 
alkali attacks and decomposes the devel- 
oping agent and renders the solution 
useless. 

FINE GRAIN DEVELOPING: 

Fine grain developing is an important 
factor of the present day camera. En- 
largements made from small films will 
show "grain" and coarseness unless the 
films are developed in fine grain de- 
veloper. 

A photographic film consists essentially 
of an emulsion of silver bromide, and sil- 
ver bromide is made by adding potas- 
sium bromide to silver nitrate. Iodide 
mixed with silver makes silver iodide, 
chloride with silver makes silver chloride, 
and so on, all down the line. The silver 
bromide particles are the sensitive agents 
in photographic films, just as silver chlo- 
ride is the sensitive agent in our printing 
paper. These bromide particles are en- 
cased in gelatine walls (just like honey 
is encased in beeswax). These little cells 
are like thousands and thousands of 
small mirrors packed closely together. 
They resemble mirrors in many ways, for 
both have silver nitrate as their medium 
of light absorption. When the film is 
exposed to light in a camera, the lens acts 
somewhat like a telescope or pair of field 
glasses does to the human eye. It con- 
denses the picture, the light strikes the 
bromide cells and as far as the action of 
the camera is concerned, it is finished. 
The next step is developing the film. 



The action of the developer on the film 
simply removes the bromide from the 
silver, and at the same time converts the 
remaining silver into "black metallic sil- 
ver" which forms the image that the 
camera has "taken." This image, of 
course, is made up of grains, because the 
original emulsion consisted of micro- 
scopic crystal cells. 

When the action of the developer re- 
moves the bromide from these cells, the 
cells break up, due to the water in the 
developer, causing the gelatine to absorb 
water and become soft. Thus, the silver 
bromide is fully exposed to the action of 
the developer, and the so-called reduction 
of the silver takes place. Now it is at this 
point that the present day FINE 
GRAIN developers play their important 
role. 

The action of the developer in causing 
the casing of gelatine that had previously 
enclosed the silvers to break down, al- 
lows the silvers, minus their bromide, to 
become "wild." As they have a mag- 
netic attraction for each other, they 
build up in CLUMPS in the craters of 
what were gelatine cells (or crystalline 
shells that encased the original silver 
bromide microscopic grains). 

These craters are brought about by the 
so-called "boiling action" of the encased 
silvers. 

This "boiling action," or eruption, of 
the encased silvers in their dried crystal 
gelatine cells, takes place due to two 
things; the action of the light on the 
cells when the film was exposed in the 
camera, and the action of the developer. 

The action of light with which we are 
chiefly concerned at this present moment 
is a photo chemical action resulting in 
the decomposition of the compounds (the 
silvers), to be followed later with a 
chemical action of the developer. 

It is well known that under the influ- 
ence of light such elements as sulphur 
and phosphorus gradually become trans- 
formed into their so-called "allotropic 
modifications, ordinary phosphorus be- 
coming red, or amorphous, and a s t^°"^ 
solution of sulphur in carbon di sulphide 
slowly depositing the insoluble modifica- 
tion when exposed to sunlight in a seaIe , 
tube. So also certain metallic salts, sucn 
as the crystalline chloride iodide or bro- 
mide of silver, nickel sulphate and zinc 
selena te, experience a change in crysta - 
line form under the influence of hfe™ ; 
Regarded as a chemical agent, light 
produce both combination and deconip« ' 
sition, although it is often very difhcun 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



813 



Wlipr anr particular effect is 
to »T ^ffZe « the other or of both 
the result °* Consider for instance 

»° de * Yhe most familiar cases, that of 
or tnt- 1L * , , ,,_,_„ „ mixture of 



of action. 

the actio- Jwrogeii; Th. 
fe/ known! real* explo 



0 ne ° r L . 1 1 rrlit upon 
t^e action n 



i mixture of 
These gases, as 
sively under 



clU0 vnown, react explosively 
*, ^fluence of a strong light to form 
t , ™.on rhloride. 

feC Explained this to enab e you 
^nderXnd that light action plays a 

h Kg the latent image into visibility 

dIirinS SS watfrTtSe developer softens 
? nC ltoe ceU Ssiixg surrounding the 
the gelatine ce b alkali in the 

microscopic Sih er g , ^ tQ 

^frSt and it is for this reason, 
& ^rlTSh ll sodium carbonate, etc., 
IS bTtery sparingly used in tine 

K'ettrS (as mentioned pre^ 
huSA that it is the Slumping of the 
^silvers" that cause the coarse ^en- 
largements or movies. *lhe magnetic 
faction that the silvers have for 
themselves causes them to buncn to 
Xr in certain cells, thus leaving cer- 
& craters empty, and it is because of 
this uneven distribution that a 10 or 15 
diameter enlargement irorn such a nega- 
tive shows a mottled, blotchy, appear- 
ance that is termed to be grainy. 

This is very easily understood, tor m 
each erupted cell there is only one mi- 
croscopic grain of silver, and it tne 
magnetic attraction of certain _ silver 
grains causes others to leave their cra- 
ters, empty spaces must result. Ana 
where a "hunch" of silver crystals have 
clumped together another defect, dark 
spots," will be noticed. Where the cra- 
ters are empty "light spots" will appe**j 
These varied actions make the finished 
photo "blotchy." 



EXPOSURE; 

Over exposed pictures, (that is, films 
that have been over-timed) increase the 
amount of light energy absorbed by the 
silver bromides. This makes developing 
action more rapid, with the result that 
the eruption of the encased silver brO- 
TOMes are greatly accentuated, causing 
the gelatine casings to break down more 
rapidly. This, in turn, allows the silver 
t° become "wild" and then to "clump 
together. 

A. developing chemical with a high re- 
action potential, such as metol, ana 
Quinary developers that are used for 



the ordinary contact plates, reduces sil- 
ver bromides very quickly, Tendering 
them unsatisfactory for fine grain de- 
veloping and they should NOT be used. 

Physical development which produces 
a very even grain consists essentially of 
the reduction of the silvers in the devel- 
oper without the breaking down of the 
gelatine cells and preventing the silvers 
from becoming wild. So in fine grain 
developers, we must use none or very 
little alkali, so as to prevent as far as 
possible the complete collapse of gelatine 
cells; and we must observe the tempera- 
ture of our developer perhaps a little 
more than we do in the usual old time 
developers. 

Warm water, alone, will cause the cells 
to break down rapidly and will cause the 
gelatine not only to collapse, but also to 
swell and cause the film to "frill" or 
check; too much alkali will also caus: 
this. Fine grain developers have a very 
inconvenient point and that is the lengt 1 
of time required to bring about this fin 
grain, even development. The tempera 
ture of the developing solution deter 
mines the length of developing time. Fo 
instance, a fine grain developer used a 
75°, requires 25 minutes developing time 
whereas the same developer, used at 
temperature of 65° requires 30 mmut 
developing time, 

It is well to know, however, that 
one purchases fine grain emulsion film 
such as Eastman's Panatomic and D 
pout's micropan only approx.mately hal 
fhe above time is required to yield go. 
results. 

the fur trade as a fur J ^ 
years, but the t^ ™* £ r ftne re- 

L f CSS nd -A^JZt^ that the 
suits and it is c & hoto _ 

better grade be purchased ^ ^ ^ 



ter grade be P urc The loW grade 

graphif supply ™^'J^y be de " 
paraphenylene ^anun 

tected by ^mos and is PWP« 

tainS Wa the be'Ter grade is f« 
whereas the bett *r hue 

lu mps and » of a 

Faraphenylene dmmi ^ 

Photographic glycm 

Sodium sulphite g ot , nCeS 

(anhvdrous) g2 oun ce: 

Distilled water 



8H 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



Requires no dilution. Develop for 25 
minutes at 70° F. or 30 minutes at 65 F 
Fine grain films take about one half the 

^Sere'Ts 6 " another good formula, but 
when first mixed is very sluggish in ac- 
tion. It should stand for at least 8 
weeks before using. 

Paraphenylcne diamine 152 grains 
Metol (elan or pictol) . 70 grams 
Sodium sulphite 

(anhydrous) 2 ounces 

Trisodium phosphate . 50 grams 
Potassium bromide ... 16 grams 

Water, distilled 32 ounces 

Develop for seven minutes at a tem- 
perature of 65° F. This yields soft nega- 
tives that will enlarge to approximately 
45 diameters. The preceding formula 
will enlarge even more. 

Borax developer for fine grain work is 
widely used and gives very good results 
that will enlarge 30 diameters without 
noticeable graininess. Thirty-five milli- 
meter film negatives developed in this 
may be enlarged to 5x7 inches satis- 
factorily. 

Metol 116 grains 

Sodium sulphite 

(desiccated) . . 13% ounces 
Hydroquinone . . . 290 grains 

Borax 116 grains 

Water 128 ounces 

Dissolve the metol in a small quantity 
of water at 125° F. and pour into the 
tank. Dissolve about one fourth the 
quantity of sulphite in water at H0° F. 
and stir in the hydroquinone until it is 
all dissolved and the solution is clear, 
when it too may be poured into the tank. 
Dissolve the remainder of the sulphite 
and the borax in water of 140° F. and 
pour into the tank. If this does not 
make up the quantity of water necessary, 
add cold water to make up the deficiency. 
Cool to 65° F. for rise and develop 15 
to 20 minutes. 

Motion Picture Film Developer.— 
JSegative or positive film. 

Water (125° F.) . , IS 
Metol (elon or 

pictol) 17 

Sodium sulphite 

(desiccated) 514 

Hydroquinone 350 

Sodium carbonate 

(desiccated) .... 2 % ounces 

potassium bromide . 50 grains 
Potassium metabi- 

sulphite flg graing 

L,old water to make 1 gallon 



minutes at a tern 



ounces 

grains 

ounces 
grains 



Develop 10 to 15 
perature of 65° F. 

Motion Picture Developer for Nega- 
tives. — 

Water (125° F.) .. 10 ounces 
Metol (elon or 

pictol) 115 grains 

Sodium sulphite 

(desiccated) .... 2% ounces 

Hydroquinone 29 grains 

Sodium carbonate 

(desiccated) .... 1% ounces 
Potassium bromide. 43 grains 
Cold water to make 1 gallon 
Develop 6 to 12 minutes at a tempera- 
ture of 65° F. 

Developer for X-ray Films. — 
Water (125° P.) .... 16 ounces 
Metol (elon or 

pictol 35 grains 

Sodium sulphite 

(desiccated) 3y 2 ounces 

Sodium carbonate 

(desiccated) 1% ounces 

Potassium bromide . . 90 grains 
Cold water to make . 32 ounces 
Do not dilute. Develop 5 minutes at 
65° F. 

Tropical Developer. — 

Great trouble is experienced by the 
photographer in tropical climates and by 
those who operate in small badly venti- 
lated darkrooms due to the heat which 
causes frilling, blistering, and reticula- 
tion. The simplest way to prevent this 
is to place the developing and fixing 
trays in larger trays filled with cracked 
ice. But ice cannot always be obtained 
in the tropics and it is necessary to 
adopt other means. Motion picture com- 
panies have overcome their troubles to 
a great extent by using the following 
developer. 

Water 32 ounces 

Para-aminophenol 

oxalate 75 grains 

Sodium sulphite 

(desiccated) .... 1% ounces 

Hydroquinone 150 grains 

Sodium carbonate 

(desiccated) .... 1% ounces 

Potassium iodide . . 30 grains 

Sodium sulphate 

(crystals) 3% ounces 

Requires no dilution. Develop fro 
5 to 8 minutes at a temperature 
greater than 90° F. At a lower jefp; 
perature the developing time is shgu 1 
longer. Fix in a hardening hypo t>ai 
(see Fixers). After washing, 1 



815 



35 ounces 



1% ounces 
75 grains 



in a solution of 1 part 
the 16 parts of water for a 

f° rm ^ m f ten minutes. Rinse m water 
S alio- to dry. 

( n r Coovinff and Process 
Developer ^ UBjjJ Should be done 
Negatives^ £ or lens aperture 

using * s ™,r shar pness of detail in the 
to increase the^ia^p ^ & ^ 

^^ereasing the exposure, but this 
means jncreasiiig results unless 

^"f^'^L an exceptionally flat field 
the lens has an l fee uged at 

P , WhiC1 rture no danger of soft 

full aP e J^ s ^ f detail at the edges of 
focus and loss . formula gives 

^Kal^trast for line and p«« 

negatives. 

Water (125° F.) 
Me tol(elon or 

pietol) 

Sodium sulphite 

(anhydrous) . . 
Hydroquinone . . 
Sodium carbonate 

PoSStrUe- .lf grains 
Common table salt . . 15 grains 
Develop 6 minutes at a temperature of 
65?F Mute 1 part to 2 parts of water. 

Contrast Developer (Jet black tones) 
Formula (D-29) .-Here is a • developer 
that combines the Pyro with the present 
day Metol and is suitable for fine line or 
process work (2 solutions). 

A, — Water 

(125° F.) 64 ounces 

Elon or 
metol 140 grains 

Sodium sul- 
phite (any) 4 ounces 

Hydro- 
quinone 1 ounce and 85 grams 

Sodium carbonate 

(any) . , , . 8 ounces 
Cold water to make one gallon. 
Add and mix in the rotation given. 

B. — Sodium bisulphite ... 75 grains 

Py ro 1 ounce 

Potassium bromide . . 20 grains 
Water to make 32 ounces. 
Use four pa T ts of "A" and one part of 
"B." at 65° F. Develop about 2y» to 
3 Va mimrites. 



Water (125° F.) 16 ounces 

of water for a 1 Elon or metol . 45 grains 

Rinse in water Sodium sulphite 

(any) iy 2 ounces 

"H vdrnmiinrvnp 175 grains 



Universal Developer Formula 
(D-72).— This formula is about the most 
accepted universal present day devel- 
oper, and is called the (D-72). It « soW 
D Y all Eastman stores. 



Hydroquinone . . . 
Sodium carbonate 

(any) 2Vi ounces 

Potassium bromide .... 27 grains 
Cold water to make .... 32 ounces 

For chloride contact paper, dilute 1 
paTt to 2 parts water. 1 part to 4 parts 
water for bromide papers and 1 part to 
3 parts of water for plates and films. 

Tank Developer D-75 — 

JL Water (125° F.) 16 ounces 

Metol 44 grains 

2. Water I 6 ounces 

Sodium sulphite (anhydrous) 260 grams 

Sodium bisulphite 1 ounce 

85 grains 

3 Water 16 ounceS 

Sodium sulphite (anhydrous) 260 grains 

Hydroquinone 175 grams 

pf ro 44 grains 

4 ^Water * 6 oimceS 

Sodium carbonate 

(desiccated) 2y a ounce 

Add enough water to make one gallon, 
Mb. each lolution separate y and gm- 
into tank as mixed. Be sure , to jdd to 
in the order given and m ^ ease s horU 
the temperatures exceed 125 r. * 

%^\^.gtzr£z « oTe 

into contact with bare iron 

^"'note : This developer £ ^ 

qu ire bromide JJ «^ 
the solution by the rums or F 

Special Developer for Bromi 

paper. — 24 ounce 

Di-aminophenol ^ oU nces 

hydrochloride g 2 ou nces 

Cold water t° miJ £ ^ 0 f „ 10 per cent 
Fo r U5e f ItaLiumtoomiae to every 6 

22W wm mt .eep. 

day's work. tempera- 
Develop for l^TfSly mixed, to; 
t J e 0 f 65° F. ^/^veloping time 1 
crease the leajfth o f ^ F , ^ 
minute each day. tflnk eaC h tune 

the surface and stir^ sum mer or rutf» 
before using. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 
Deep Tank Developer for Roll Films (D-18).— 

To make complete ... 1 gallon 10 gallons 14 gallons 

Wate r % gallon 1 gallon 2 gallons 

r eto j 10 grains 100 grains 14-0 grains 

odium sulphite ... VA ounces 12% ounces 17Vz ounces 

Sodium bisulphite . . 15 grains 150 grains % ounce 

Hvdroquinone 40 grains 1 ounce VA ounces 

Sodium carbonate .. 300 grains 6% ounces ounces 

Py ro 100 grains 2% ounces 3% ounces 

Potassium bromide . . 6 grains 60 grains 85 grains 

Water to make 1 gallon 10 gallons 14 gallons 



* 8 gallons 
6 gallons 
ounces 
60 ounces 
1% ounces 
4% ounces 
32% ounces 
II ounces 
290 grains 
48 gallons 



season for photo finishing the amount of 
potassium bromide in the developer may 
be reduced to three-fourths the amounts 
given above. For increased brilliancy 
add glycerine to the developer in the 
proportion of one ounce to fourteen gal- 
lons of solution. 

Rotogravure Tone Developer. — For 
chocolate colored pictures without ton- 
Water 72 ounces 

Sodium sulphite G ounces 

Potassium carbonate . . 10 ounces 

Glycin 850 grains 

Hydroquinone 255 grains 

Potassium bromide .... 125 grains 

For use, take 1 part of the developer 
to 7% parts of water. This formula is 
low being widely used by photofmishers 
for new effects. During the last year 
iany professional finishers have installed 
separate tanks to give their customers 
colored prints. This developer gives a 
sepia without toning. 

TONING PICTURES FOR 
DOUBLE COLOR 

The cost of producing toned, colored 
pictures has been so low that it is now 
done on a commercial basis and is com- 
ing increasingly into demand. Three 
tanks are usually installed, one for Red, 
one for Blue, and one for Green. The 
red is used for toning landscapes, "interi- 
ors, sunsets, fires, etc. The blue is used 
tor ocean, lake, and moonlight scenes. 
The green is for landscapes, flowers* 
trees, and scenery,. The names of the 



colors are placed on the vats to enable 
the employees to sort the pictures out 
quickly when removing the prints from 
the washing tanks. They are simply 
thrown into their respective vats and 
allowed to remain for a space of a couple 
of minutes, then removed and returned 
to the washing vats. After that they 
can be ferro typed in the usual way. 

One of the most important points in 
"toned" color pictures is that the 
"WHITES" of the pictures must not be 
effected or colored by the baths. Exam- 
ple: if a white ship or yacht with white 
sails is photographed, and then toned, 
the white sails and white boat must 
remain white and it is only the reduced 
silvers in the picture that should "take 
on the blue." The finished picture should 
come out with blue water, and white 
boat. Of course, all other black parts 
of the photoprint would take on the 
blue; but that is all right providing the 
other objects that are white remain 
white. 

Same applies to Green. The trees and 
grass would take on the green, but the 
sky would remain white (unless of 
course a sky filter was used on the 
camera). But this is very rare with the 
average amateur camera 'fan; and even 
at that the clouds would be the only 
part of the sky affected. Some very 
beautiful effects have been obtained in 
keeping a cement road white, pho™ 
finishers will find great response to tnis 
class of new printing. The camera ama- 
teur will also find it very interesting t» 
color up his album pictures without Hav- 
ing to have any artists tuition. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



817 



ordinary black and white photo 
* f iust allowed to soak m a selected 
print is J ^ a cou pi e of minutes and 
color 0 - nt j g removed and washed 
^ C S under running water until the 

' T-tiere is however one point to watch, 
a that must receive the most careful 
'deration. Never allow ammonia to 
P n fL>iind tlie color baths as it will ruin 



fhemtomediately. Always be sure the 
Sint is absolutely free from hypo and 
wo all alkali away from the baths, as 
■twill ruin the solutions very quickly. 

Slightly acid water will tend to im- 
prove all the colors. 

V These colored prints, if ferrotyped, 
offer some very beautiful effects. 

COLORED PICTURE BATHS: 
Blue.— 

Iron and ammonium citrate 

(green scales) 5 ounces 

Potassium ferricyanide . . 5 ounces 

Oxalic acid 4 ounces 

Water 1 gallon 

Allow the prints to remain in this solu- 
tion for at least three to four minutes 
and then wash in running water for at 
least 12 minutes. 

Red- 
Water 70 ounces 

Uranium nitrate 2 ounces 

Potassium ferricyanide , . 2 ounces 
Oxalic acid . 1% ounces 

Allow the prints to remain in this bath 
for at least four or five minutes, then 
remove and wash well in still water for 
15 minutes. A quick rinse in ammonium 
chloride will clear the whites on both the 
blue and the red. 

Green. — Many formulas but very few 

have been successful, which is proven by 

the fact that one sees very few green 

tone prints. The writer has tried out 

many -formulas and the one given below 

was discovered after months of research 
work. 

Take hot water 8 ounces 

2 drams hydrochloric acid 
A ounce vanadium chloride 
Mix these well together and place the 
*nn ° n an electric stove. , Heat 
&6solved ntil the vanadium is thoroughly 

So £ ke * solution of oxalic acid by dis- 
oimppf * ounces of oxalic acid in 12 

iron Water - Add t0 thIs 15 S rains 
acid ^ 0nde a *id 2 drams of sulphuric 



and wash 1*°.. 8 J™«ta>- . Remove 



W ™Z *- 6 . Blue i Red > and Green to 



afters f^i &S theix ^ fe is ^hort and 
after that they will stain the whites 

SeTed in tf^^r^ 8 Can * 
treated in these color toning baths. For 



those who wish to get the richest tones 
Possible with bromide enlargements here 
is a tone color that gives colors rang- 
ing from rich brawn to purple black 
Lead nitrate . , % dram dissolved in 
water Vz ounce 

Dissolve in 1 ounce of water and one 
dram of alum. 

Now dissolve 1 ounce ordinary hypo in 
three ounces water. 

1 grain Gold chloride in % ounce of 
water. 

Dissolve separately, and add together 
in the rotation given above. The solu- 
tion will be clear. 

DOUBLE TONING (Dual Sepia); 

Here is a toner that will give two 
shades of different browns in the one 
picture, and the effect is very pleasing. 

Make a solution of % ounce chromic 
acid in 10 ounces water. Place the print 
in this solution until it nearly fades out 
(about a minute or so). Wash th 
print in running water and then place 
the print in ordinary film developer 
(M.Q.) and redevelop back to visibility. 

This formula takes the place of the 
old time sulphide print for rich browns. 
Unlike the old .time sulphide process the 
above is odorless and less liable to pro- 
duce insoluble stains. , . 

Here is a formula that is being 
•widely used by professional studios tha 
specialize in photos of live ^ck^s i 
produces a "Natural Brown pictur 
that gives an effect nearer the nati 

C t: k e°Ue%un J c?o 1 f S " bichloride of mer 
cur> (poTson) and dissolve in 16 ounce 

° f jS£ tCprints to remain in this solu 



tion for five minutes 



Then wash well, 



n a solution 1 ounce hypo 
and immerse m «• ™ ,., y foam 

added of ?^7j s Sf„ S,trthed 
about investing in a supply 



818 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



chemicals for toning: in a small way, 
can purchase from his local dealer a 
complete set of an assortment of 10 
Lero-toners in a box for a very small 
outlay. 

TWO COLOR PRINTS: 

Photo prints that have been "over 
lapped" with two different colored 
toners, and rendered glossy with a sim- 
le ferrotype plate, produce pleasing ef- 
ects. The advantage of "local color 
oning" is that one does not require any 
ition. Take for instance a photo of a 
church with a tall steeple. One can 
imply take the red toning bath (as pre- 
viously given) and apply it over the 
church with a piece of cotton. There is 
o need to try and keep "within the 
ines" because the toner will not effect 
he "light" parts of the picture. Allow 
he picture to remain on the table (face 
p) for 5 minutes, then rinse in water 
nd immerse the entire print in the 
lue toning bath. After a lapse of five 
inutes the picture is removed from the 
lue toning bath, and washed well in 
unning water for about 15 minutes, 
he finished picture will be a dark red- 
ish brown church with a blue sky. 
his process, perhaps, presents a more 
atural effect that if the photo print was 
olored by an artist. Toned pictures 
hould always be placed on a ferrotype 
late. 

ERROTYPE PLATES OR TINS: 

These tins certainly do produce a gloss 
n photo prints that is impossible to 
btain with the uses of varnishes, etc. 

The plates are very easily made if a 
ood grade of enamel is used (your local 
ardware merchant can supply many 
ationally advertised brands that dry 

ith a high lustre). 

Purchase some sheets of heavy tin, 
•lean well with gasoline and wash in 
oap and warm water, rinse and allow 
o dry. 

After painting the sheets, take hold of 
5, * £ nd Ji ap [t with the finger until 

£]f e + ? e Wh marks " disappear, 
to dry s °mewhere free from dust 

SQUEEGEE ENAMEL- 



eeS wax 7 ounces 



Take half the turpentine, place th 
broken up bees wax into this, place on 
an electric stove and allow to get hot 
(stirring occasionally). 

Add the remaining part of the tur- 
pentine, and then add the naptha. Bot" 
tie this up, and keep well corked. Care 
should be taken in mixing this solution 
as it is highly inflammable and should 
never be used near an open flame. p 0ur 
a little of this on the painted tin (the 
ferrotype tin) and with a piece of cloth 
spread all over the plate. Wait a few 
minutes until dry and then polish well 
with piece of flannel. The plate is now 
ready to receive prints for glazing. 

The action of this ferrotype or glazing 
tin in producing the gloss on photo 
prints is this: 

When the washed print is drained of 
its surplus water, it is placed on the tin, 
and a piece of blotting paper laid on it. 
A small rubber squeegee roller is then 
run over the back of the print. The 
action of the squeegee roller forces the 
gelatine in the emulsion that is on the 
print, outwards. The forced out gela- 
tine is forced up against the polished 
ferrotype tin, and, that being as far as 
it can go, a layer of shiny gelatine is 
thus formed on the surface of the print 
as it lies face down on the ferrotype 
plate. 

When the photo print is dry, it is 
peeled off the plate and the result is a 
photo print of high lustre. 

Do not forget to polish the ferrotype 
plate with dry clean cloth each time be- 
fore you put prints on it to glaze. 

If the prints are hard to get off, it is 
caused by the emulsion on the prints 
being too* soft. (This can be remedied 
by the addition of a little alum in the 
hypo.) (See Fixation.) 

PANCHROMATIC DESENSITIZ- 
ING DEVELOPERS. (Color gra- 
dation) : 

The introduction in late years of the 
panchromatic plate has found great 
favor in the photographic field. The 
true meaning of the name "Panchroma- 
tic" is "the true rendering of all colors 
in their various gradations." This does 
not mean that a panchromatic plate or 
film in your camera will give you * 
photograph in natural colors. It 
not do this, but it will give you a blacK 
and white reproduction of 'more even 
tone and more illumination in red an 
yellow objects than has been done w«° 
ordinary plates which were insensiwvq 
to red light to a large extent. l a 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



S19 



film 



IS 



ust as sensitive 



enr" "" „ n A violet ligm- « a »" 7 . 

t*» bI "t ,t in addition, it is also sensitive 
Ifttej *> ut ' nd r ed. Yellow or orange 
t° ° ri ? g objects photographed on ordi- 
coloT Jcs vield dark images, while blue 
„arj r P lat f J. lmost any shade, although 
N € ^f them rnay appear dark blue to 
some of tnen oduce near i y 

tbe n has heen found that the parti- 
whit % silver halide are most sensitive 
Rhf,e colors which they absorb, and 
t0 I ous experiments have been under- 
numerous 1 subs tance which would 
F*S he silver salts to absorb the 
, 1 Ji the rays in the same ratio as 
wh ° L them But this has proved so 
r Z bl impossible and although means 
far to oe mi('«=>» 3 x _ Hi* eil- 



&een" discovered to render the sil 
Jer salts more sensitive 



to the less re- 
ver mvs of "the red and yellow, 
Ef e'St luminous to the naked 
T? vet they still remain most sensitive 
2 the blue rays. These colors are toned 
down or robbed of some of their actinic 
vahie by being filtered through color % 
& hut unfortunately, the total sensi- 
tiveness of the whole plate is lowered in 
consequence., 

The ordinary, or non-ortboehroma- 
tized, plate is extremely sensitive to blue 
and violet light, so much so that any ob- 
ject of very blue intense color photo- 
graphs also like white, Violet also, so 
long as it is a true violet and free from 
ted, photographs far lighter than it ap- 
pears to the eye. Green, on the other 
hand, appears much too dark in a photo- 
• graph, while pure yellow, and still more 
pure red, appears practically as dark as 
a jet black. To take a very common 
example: an orange placed on the cuS- 
L tomary greyish black focussing cloth, 
I and photographed on an ordinary plate, 
1 appears in print almost as dark as the 
cloth itself, and yet to the eye, the fruit 
stands out as a brilliant highlight. This 
is an exceptional instance, the skin of an 
orange being of a particularly pure 
color. The great majority of the colors 
ln nature are far from pure, but when 
: analysed show themselves to he subtle, 
^mpoimds made up of many tints, some 
01 them quite unsuspected. ' Then again 
I *Mit natural 
[FUch reflects 



natural objects have a surface 
MW reflects a great deal of white 
tiY ( olla K e heing a case in point, and 
"is white light will affect the emulsion, 

IS a the °°.i ect from wWch il is ™~ 

tive t B °- f a color to which il iS mSenS1 " 
oa' is * OT this reason and many 
' W S . ? at the panchromatic plate has 
Dee n introduced. 



Highly colored flowers and insects are 
often impossible to photograph with- 
out panchromatic plates or films, as of 
course are paintings and many other 
artificial creations. 

Panchromatic plates and films are 
manufactured by a great number of 
plate manufacturers to overcome this 
trouble of difference in color gradations. 

Now these particular plates or films 
should be developed in total darkness or 
else under the glow of a very faint 
GREEN light. 

This has been one disadvantage that 
the present day camera amateur and 
professional have not been able to get 
acquainted with. 

Chemistry has again come to their as- 
sistance and produced a developer that 
is termed as the panchromatic desensitiz- 
ing developer. 

The PINACRYPTOL family has been 
assembled by the chemists to assist us to 
develop these important plates in a more 
convenient manner. Let us first take 
the mother of all desensitizers, Pinacryp- 
tol GREEN. It is the most efficient 
desensitizer dye that has yet been dis- 
covered, brilliant greenish black crystals, 
soluble in water, giving a non-staining 
solution, which may be made in one to 
500 strength for storage. In addition to 
its non staining qualities it acts more 
efficiently in one in 6000, solution, as a 
desensitizer than phenosafranine, espe- 
cially with panchromatic plates. Its 
action il quite different, since prolonged 

bath method. _ ensitive color plates, 
For very high y J^ ceied hj a p«- 
the green s advisea. 1 so]at ion of 

liminary immersion ma fra „ 
pinacryptol yellow- ^J erts hydro- 
nine, this desensi^er u ^ 
quinone mto * <J UIC £ tion of amidol 
ft markedly Tetordstb e a ^ ^ m _ 
as a developing agent, u 
fluence M.Q. or tyro. ^ gensi . 

into visibility 



.eloping panchromatic pi 



S°20 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



desensitizer in the developer, is so feeble 
that just as many plates have been 
spoiled by the accidents in darkness as 
those that have been light-struck. 

When you add a desensitizer to your 
developer, you simply place the plate or 
film in the developer under a very feeble 
light. BUT AFTER A LAPSE OF 
TWO MINUTES or even less you can 
then finish the developing under a bright 
red light or even an orange light with 
perfect safety. 

Some developers allow the direct addi- 
tion of the pinacryptol green solution to 
the developer. In this case we recom- 
mend the use of a rodinal developer. 
Also diluted glycine developer permits 
the additoin of the green solution. But 
hydroquinone and all developers contain- 
ing more than 15% grains of hydro- 
quinone in 34 fluid ounces are not 
suitable, for they do not permit the 
addition of the pinacryptol green. 

DESENSITIZER DEVELOPER 
SOLUTIONS: 

To every 3V 2 ounces of the diluted 
developer add 85 drops of the pinacryp- 
tol green 1 in 500 solution. Developing 
should be started in total darkness or 
under a very feeble green light, and 
after 2 minutes the bright red or orange 
light can be turned on and thus the 
development can be finished with ease 
in the light. 

Do not use pinacryptol green on color 
plates, pinacryptol yellow must be used. 
The trouble in altering the brand of 
developer in order to use the pinacryptol 
green can be overcome by the use of 
safranine (1 part in 2.000 parts of 
-water). The chief objection to this de- 
sensitizing agent is that it has been 
giving trouble by staining the plates 
and films. Here is a formula and 
method that will overcome that trouble 
and allow the use of the ordinary devel- 
oper. 

1. Pheno-safraninc 

(water soluble) .... 20 grains 
Water 8 ounces 

2. Formaline (37<% 

solution) ounce 

Sodium sulphate (dry) 1 ounce 
Water to make 9 ounces 

Directions; Add one ounce of (1) solu- 
tion to nine ounces of solution number 
2. The plates or films are bathed in 
this solution for two minutes. They are 
then rinsed and are ready for develop- 
ment. This solution keeps well and 
burdens the film in hot weather. 



Note:— Should you have trouble in a 
stain by the use of safranine in any 
other process this can be removed by 
diazotisation witE" a solution containing 
1 cc. of a 10 per cent solution of 
sodium nitrite, and 1 cc. of a 30 
per cent solution of hydrochloric acid 
per 100 cx.s. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF INTENSI- 
FICATION AND REDUCTION 

REDUCTION: 

The term "reduction" as commonly 
used in photography means the weaken- 
ing of a negative, which because of over- 
exposure or over-development contains 
an image that is too dense. Too much 
silver metal exists in the image, making 
the negative appear flat, foggy and with- 
out contrast in the case of over-ex- 
posure, and too contra sty in the case of 
over-development. 

To adjust such negatives for normal 
and satisfactory printing, some of the 
silver image must be gradually removed 
without injuring the negative. The sil- 
ver metal "of the image, however, resists 
the solvent action of all reagents except 
those which also destroy the gelatin. 
Therefore, it is necessary to first con- 
vert part of the image into some soluble 
silver salt which can be easily washed 
away with water or some other suitable 
solvent. 

This conversion of part of the silver 
image into a soluble silver salt is accom- 
plished with certain oxidizing agents 
which gradually react, forming com- 
pounds such as silver ferro cyanide, sil- 
ver chloride, etc., which are easily dis- 
solved and washed away, leaving only 
the desired amount of silver metal in the 
image. The ease and rate of conversion 
vary with different oxidizing agents. 
Some attack the weaker or shadow parts 
of the silver image first, whereas others 
oxidize the denser parts before reacting 
with the shadow details. This difference 
in action is very desirable since it per- 
mits the choice of a chemical most sa *! s ' 
factory for a particular negative trouble- 

Formula. — 

Mix 3% ounces of 10% solution 
hypo 

75-150 minims of 10% solution po- 
tassium ferricyanide 
It is better to use less potassium f er " 
ricyanide and to stop the action kei(> r 
desired result is obtained as too mu^ 
contrast may result through excess v> 
loss of detail. 



■ 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



831 



p or negatives which aTe 

Formula- over> an d lack contrast, 
t°° den nver-exposure and over-deveiop- 
dU It use the following: 
Solution A 
16 ounces 



Water 
HYV° 



1 ounce 

Solution B 
16 ounces 



480 cubic 
centimeters 
30 grams 

480 cubic 
centimeters 



Water • ■ 

Pntassium ferricinide 
Potassium i ounce g0 grams 

As this B solution is affected by the 
r m the bottle containing it should be 
^ Iber color or wrapped in opaque 
^apefand kept in the dark when not 
in use. 

Mix for immediate use: 

Solution A 8 ounces 

Solution B 1 °™ce 

The negative can be placed in the solu- 
tion directly after fixing. If a dry nega- 
tive is to be reduced, it must be soaked 
in water for a few minutes before ap- 
plying the reducer. To avoid streaks, 
always rinse the negative before hold- 
ing it up for examination. As soon as 
sufficiently reduced wash thoroughly. 
This reducer increases contrast in the 
negative. 

Formula No. 1. — 

Solution A 

Water 1' ounce 

Potassium 
ferricyanide 15 grams 

Solution B 

Water 32 ounces 

Hypo 1 ounce 

Add "A" solution to "B" and immerse 
negative, watching the action of the re- 
ducer carefully. The reducing action 
can be observed best when a white tray 
is used. Wash negative thoroughly after 
reduction. 

The above solution will not keep in 
combination. Mix fresh solution for 
each occasion. 

Formula R-4a— For all Professional 
Films and Plates. — 



For use take: Stock Solution A, 1 
ounce (30 cubic centimeters) , Stock Solu- 
tion B, 4 ounces (120 cubic centimeters), 
and water to make 32 ounces (1 liter). 

Pour the mixed solution at once over 
the negative to he reduced. Watch, 
closely. The action is best seen when 
the solution is poured over the negative 
in a white tray, "When the negative has 
been reduced sufficiently, wash thor- 
oughly before drying. 

Solutions A and B should not be com- 
bined until they are to he used. They 
will not keep long in combination. 



Stock Solution A 
Avoirdupois 



Potassium 

ferricyanide 1% ounces 
w ater to make 16 ounces 



Metric 



Formula. — 

Solution A 
Potassium ferricyanide 



Water 



1 ounce 
16 ounces 



^vpo 



'atcr to 



3?.5 grams 
600.0 cubic 
centimeters 

Stock Solution B 
.... 16 ounces 480.0 grams 
ake 64 ounces 2.0 litets 




Solution B 

Hypo 1 ounce 

Water 16 ounces 

Dissolve ferricyanide in dark bottle, 
or wrap bottle in opaque paper, as it is 
affected by light. Reduction should be 
carried on in subdued light never by 
strong daylight. 

Take a sufficient quantity of B tc 
cover the negative in a tray and add a 
small quantity of A. Then immerse the 
negative. Remove several times during 
the operation and wash off the chemicals, 
preventing the negative from staining. 
Wash thoroughly after desired reduction 
has been obtained. 

INTENSIFICATION: 

It sometimes happ ens that a negafave 
does not produce good P[£* 
is too weak, too dense, too flat, or too 
oon^ll If ^ new exposure is impos- 
35e » of these faults can tepjrtaj 

mod ified ^^^S^a 
pletely ™i«ctodjy U» J \ „ 
as "intensification ana r tflins 
If the negative » .too tlun t^ ^ 
too little silver metal m 
can be strengthened by ing 
If the negative is too dens* and 
too much si ver metal in ^ 
can be weakened by ^ a com „ 

times, a f aid gr Wg^J For exam- 
ination of th «fP r . g oVe r-exposed the 

imageis too ^ ™ red uction only 

ment and wdl reqmr 

On the other hand ift „ detal s 

fl cation, 



882 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



INTENSIFICATION PROCESSES: 
Mercury Type and Formulas— Inten- 
sifying with mercury salts imparts dil- 
ferent degrees of increased opacity to 
the image and manufacturers of plates 
and films commonly include formulas 
giving satisfactory results. 

Finely divided mercury metal is more 
opaque than finely divided silver metal. 
It more completely absorbs all wave- 
lengths of light, imparting an intense 
black color by replacing part of all o± 
the sflver metal in the image. 

Most mercury salts are insoluble, but 
mercuric chloride (corrosive subli- 
mate) is sufficiently soluble for use in a 
bath in which the well washed negative 
is placed. (In all except one of the 
following methods, all traces of hypo 
must be eliminated by thorough wash- 
ing to prevent irremovable stains.) lne 
mercuric chloride in solution is broken 
down by the finely divided silver metal 
in the image (which in this form is a 
good reducing agent) to mercurous 
chloride. Simultaneously the silver 
metal is converted (oxidized) into silver 
chloride as follows: 

Silver and mercuric chloride is 
(forming image) 

silver chloride and mercurous chloride 
(forming image) (forming image) 

Thus the original image formed by 
silver metal is changed to a mixture of 
silver chloride and mercurous chloride. 
Both are white insoluble substances so 
that the negative appears free from any 
dark silveT metal when viewed from the 
back by transmitted light. The comple- 
tion of this first step is therefore indi- 
cated by the disappearance of the image. 
Fot this reason the mercuric chloride 
bath is called a "bleach." 

Most formulas recommend adding a 
small quantity of one of the following 
chemicals: sodium chloride, ammonium 
chloride, hydrochloric acid, or potas- 
sium bromide. These substances in the 
order named increase the amount of 
mercuric chloride which may be dis- 
solved in a unit of solution. 

When bleaching is complete the nega- 
tive is -washed in a dilute solution of 
hydrochloric acid to eliminate any ex- 
cess mercuric chloride left in the gela- 
■£\ Washing in water removes most of 
it hut by increasing the solubility, as 
stated above, all of it is removed with 
tne aid of hydrochloric acid, preventing 
future stains. b 



BLACKENING THE BLEACHED 
NEGATIVE: 

After bleaching and washing in the 
dilute hydrochloric acid bath, the nega- 
tive is ready for the final step of break- 
ing down the _ silver chloride and 
mercurous chloride now forming th e 
image. There arc many ways to do this 
but the following represent those most 
commonly used to convert the bleached 
image into mercury metal, silver metal, 
or some complex mercury silver com- 
pound giving an intense black color. 
These solutions are called "blackeners." 
The chemical action of the various kinds 
of blackeners follow: 

SODIUM SULPHITE ANHY- 
DROUS: 

A slight increase in density is obtained 
by placing the negative in a solution of 
sodium sulphite. This is a good blackener 
which converts (reduces chemically) the 
mercurous chloride to finely divided 
mercury metal and possibly a complex 
mercury salt. The silver chloride is 
changed (reduced chemically) to silver 
metal but about half of the silver is 
lost due to solvent action which the 
sodium sulphite exerts, particularly in 
the shadow portions. For negatives 
that are originally too weak in the 
shadows for successful printing, this sol- 
vent action is disastrous, and some other 
blackener should he used. 

The negative is thorougnly wasliea 
after intensifying to eliminate traces oi 
sodium sulphite to stop further action. 

Formula-— Prepare the following solu- 
tion which will keep indefinitely: 

No. 1 

Water 16 ounces SOO cubic 

centimeters 



Mercuric 
chloride 

Potassium 
bromide 



14 ounce 



8 grams 
8 grams 



% ounce 
No, 2 

No. 2 should be freshly mixed 
Water 8 ounces 250 cub 



Sodium sulphite 



centime terS 
30 gram s 



anhydrous . 1 ounce f° is j 
(which will test 60° by hydrorafw / 

After the negative is well fi x j^ s be- 
washed, immerse in No. I until it 
come thoroughly whitened, a" a 
rinsing carefully place it in No- ' jf 
ing it there until entirely cle^re 
sufficient intensification has n ° 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



823 



150 grains 
150 grains 
16 ounces 



a wish for ten minutes repeat the 
Stlnn and finally wash well. If after 
0 peratio" negative is too dense 

be Educed ify placing it for a 

seconds in water 16 ounces, hypo 

1 f? B the negative has not been thor- 
lu fixed and washed before xntensifi- 
SottatwOl ensue. 

. Formula- 

Mercuric chloride . 

potassium bromide 

Water to make . . . 
Before placing the negative in above 
•^nsifvim? solution, wash thoroughly. 
Site emails in this bath until the image 
has turned white all over. It is then 
rinsed and immersed in a solution of 
Sum sulphite and water, one part 
ulplute to eight parts water, m i which >t 
Sy and evenly darkens. It is then 
washed thoroughly to remove the sul- 
phite. 

Formula IN-L.-For P//>^ S ional 
films bleach the negative in the follow- 
ing solution until it is white, then wash 
thoroughly: 

Potassium 

bromide % ounce 22.5 grams 

Mercuric 

chloride % ounce 22.5 grams 

Water to make. .32 ounces 1 liter 

The negative can be blackened with 
10 per cent sulphite solution, developing 
solution such as Formula D-61 a diluted 
1 to 1, or 10 per cent ammonia, these 
giving progressively greater density in 
the order given. To increase contrast 
greatly without increasing the density in 
the shadow portions blacken in: 

Sodium or 
potassium 

.cyanide % ounce 15 grams 

Silver nitrate ... % ounce 22.5 grams 

^ater to make. .32 ounces 1 liter 

In order to make this up, dissolve the 
cyanide and silver nitrate separately, 
and add the latter to the former, until a 
Permanent precipitate is iust produced; 
allow the mixture to stand a short time 
then filter. This is called Monck- 
toven's Intensifier. 



formula.- 



Solution No. 1 



excuric chloride 



,,, . 200 grains 

Potassium bromide . 100 grains 
er io ounces 



Wate 



Solution No. £ 
Sodium sulphite 

anyhdrous % ounce 

Water 4 ounces 

The negative must be well fixed and 
washed before intensifying. 

Place negative in No. 1 rocking gently, 
until completely bleached. Wash in run- 
ning water for at least half hour— suc- 
cess of the after-treatment depends upon 
this washing — then place in No. 2 until 
bleaching entirely disappears. Wash for 
fifteen minutes in running water. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC FIXATION 

FIXATION: 

Fixing the negative means just what 
it says. It "fixes" the image and pre- 
vents the white parts from blackening 
and destroying the semblance of a pic- 
ture. After the development the unre- 
duced silver salts are removed by the 
action of the fixing bath that is made up 
of a solution of sodium thiosulphate, 
commonly known as hypo. 

No part of the image is affected by 
the hypo unless the prints are foTgotten 
and allowed to remain in the solution too 
long, especially if the prints are floating 
face up. It is best to put prints into 
hypo face down and not leave them in 
the solution longer than twenty minutes. 
Unless the hypo solution is nearly ex- 
hausted, the fixing time should never ex- 
ceed fifteen minutes. 

There are only a few substances that 
will dissolve silver halides and hypo is 
the most used one commercially, because 
of its low cost and its safety in use. 
When emulsions first came into general 
use years ago, potassium cyanide was 
used as the toing salt, but since it is a 
Sangerous poison it is never used today 
Tn the process of fixation, the silver 

on or more complex salts of sdjer j. 
sodium thiosulphate has 
water. As.longa s the femg 

K""^ .3 a ? nd proper nsin g 

action takes place. completes the 

The developing ~ had 

reduction of the sdver on ^ ^ 

been started by trie » bath JS to 

principal acbon of the ^y gilver }t 

remove all of the xmre nu M 
Sdver impounds not acted y 
or the developing olun ai 

the fixing bath. 



8£4 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



A Dlain, fresh solution of hypo worts 
Jl in cool weather, but does not remain 
rtVient very long. After a short time 
■£ ^aclfon of the chemicals brought 
^rlrom the developing bath into the 
™ solution stains the prints and nega- 
S that are fixed in it, therefore, some 
Servative must be added to the hypo 
IS bath, which we will discuss shortly. 
As a developing solution agent does 
of act or redSce silver salts except in 
n alkaline condition, and as the purpose 
f the Sg bath must be the opposite, 
t must be acid. This is generally ac- 
4 "pHshed by adding acetic acK Acetic 
Cidf however, turns hypo milky. The 
ypo decomposes into free sulphur and 
solum sulphite- Fortunately, this 
nL em icaI action is reversible, smce a so- 
lution of sulphur and sodium sulphite 
combine to form sodium hyposulphite 
&S am upon boiling. This being the case, 
an excess of sodium sulphite is mam- 
ained in the fixing bath to oppose the 
decomposition of the hypo by the acid. 
In this way it is possible to add sufficient 
acid to the fixing bath to neutralize the 
alkali that is carried from the developer 
on the print or negative into the fixing 
ath and to prevent it from decomposing 
the hypo. 

The excess of the sodium sulphite also 
prevents the oxidation of the developing 
agents that are also carried into the fix- 
ing bath, it acts as a preserver by ab- 
sorbing the oxygen dissolved in the solu- 
tion from the air before it react with the 
developers to form stain. 

All possible sources of trouble in the 
fixing baths are thus far taken care of, 
excepting the softening of the gelatine of 
which the emulsions on prints and nega- 
tives are composed. Some substance has 
therefore to be added to the fixing bath 
in order to take care of this, otherwise, 
negatives would be ruined by frilling 
and peeling off and they would be so soft 
that they would be impossible to handle. 

Potassium chrome alum, therefore, 
enters into the field of trouble-preventing 
and produces such a hardening effect 
on the emulsion that the present day 
fixing bath offers little or no trouble to 
the photographers. Plain potassium 
alum, while not quite such an efficient 
hardener, is often used instead of the 
chrome alum and is especially good for 
prints as it does not give a stain of any 
sort. J 

A worn out fixing bath causes more 
trouble than one cares to entertain, 
bueh as stained prints, fading of prints, 
and a host of other troubles, so there- 



fore, we have prepared a short trouble 
chart on fixation that will enable you to 
look and find what is the cause of your 
troubles. The formulas given in this 
book have been carefully tested, but 
other troubles apart from mixing the 
chemicals may take place according to 
the conditions under which you are 
working. 

STAINING OF PRINTS: 

Insufficient Sulphite. — If this is the 
cause there is no preservative to prevent 
oxygen from the air decomposing the de- 
veloping agent brought over from the 
developing solution. An oxidized devel- 
oper turns the solution brown, staining 
the prints. Too little sulphite will also 
cause the fixing bath to turn milky. 

Insufficient Washing of Negatives 
and Prints. — Washing eliminates most of 
the developer and alkali brought over 
from the developing solution. This 
washing prolongs the life of the fixer hy 
conserving the acid and the sulphite 
which are the enemies of stain. 

Scum on the Surface of the Bath.— 

This contamination attaches itself to the 
surfaces of the emulsions, prevents 
proper fixing, and is generally due to 
impure chemicals, dirt or dust in the 
trays, or it may be due to minerals dis- 
solved in the water making it hard. 

The formation of sludge in hypo baths 
has been a troublesome thing for many 
years, but it has been remedied just a 
few months ago, by the addition of boric 
acid crystals to every gallon of fixer. 
This sludge is a scum of aluminum sul- 
phite and unless removed by careful 
swabbing with absorbent cotton or a 
camel's hair brush it causes trouble, ij 
allowed to dry on the negative once, w 
is practically impossible to remove. 

IF THE BATH DOES NOT 
HARDEN: 

Insufficient Hardener in the Fixer.— 

Not enough alum in the solution or i 
has displaced the sodium in the sulpn"- 
and is, therefore, inactive. The harnei 
ing of gelatin is called tanning and nwj 
he accomplished by potassium ajj^' 
chrome alum, tannic acid, or forma 



IMPROPER MIXING: 



As free acid decomposes hypo ^ 
free sulphur, the two cannot be rfl ^ 
together when preparing the sola ^ 
Sulphite prevents this reaction, an ^ 
sulphite and acid are mixed and aiu 
then added. After the acid harden 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



8S5 



an 
mix the 



■ nrepared, it is cooled to room 
solution t '^P b £ fore addill g it to the cold 

WfjCrWat when preparing 
^ wdening solution not to mix 
a cid S and alum before adding the acid. 
sd Pi jte absen e of acid, alum and sul- 
In t» e a ^ forming aluminum sulphite, 
PS^e& inthe fo^ of a 

^/Sg bath formula includes so- 
metabisulphite or sodium bisulphite 
dmm ui« a ^ ;j . rt ^ i ng tcad of sodium sul- 



Iphite) 



sodium 

( a ?' u "Xa' acetic acid, it is very impor 
P hi ^o prepare the add hardening solu 
tant t0 e p P ara P te from the hypo 



(acid 

big 

solution, 

tl °A ^ the two together after they haTe 
lied to noTmal femperature and not 
coolea w temperature of over 

K?* the' acid in the fixing hath be- 
re active and acts as if it war 
(or more than what is re 
quired) and it decomposes the hypo into 



pounds 
ounces 
ounces 
ounces 

ounces 
ounces 



c 1" /— than what is re- 

in excess 

freTsulp^ar'an^lhTsolution is Wh- 
S s aid has to be thrown away. New 
oWas for fixing baths that will not 
Stow down a sludge are as follows: 
I -Water (about 125°) . 80 ounces 

' Hypo 2 P ounds 

Sodium sulphite (des) 2 ounces 
Acetic acid (28 per 

cen t) 6 ounces 

Boric acid crystals . . 1 ounce 

Potassium alum 2 ounces 

Cold water to make one gallon. 
Dissolve the hypo in the wateT and 
then add each chemical in the rotation 
given above and be sure that each chemi- 
cal is dissolved before attempting to add 
the next one. 

This fixer is not for papers, it is tor 
films ONLY and will fix about 75 rolls. 

II.— Hypo SVa 

Water 150 

Sodium sulphite . . . 3% 

"Water 28 

Mix separately. 

Chrome alum 3 

Water 42 

Acetic acid (28 per 
cent) 8 ounces 

Mix the first solution to the second one 
Slowly stirring all the time, 
. Short Formulas— These formulas are 
intended for those who have "run out 
°f hypo and need some quickly. 

Hi.— Hypo 8 ounces 

Water 80 ounces 

1 ounce meta bisulphite, 
% ounce alum and a dash 
acetic acid. 



The simplest thing to remember about 
fixing baths is ONE in FOUR, one ounce 
hypo to four ounces water. 

Adding potassium iodide to the fixing 
bath results in softer and warmer tones. 

Nitrate of silver and salt (y 2 ounce of 
each), salt first and then the silver in- 
tensifies the prints and negatives and 
gives bluish tones. Nitrate of silver and 
potassium iodide (iodide first) gives 
great contrast and warmer tones. 

Alum and acetic acid gives no effect 
on tones, only tends to turn bath a slight 
purplish tone. Sodium chloride increases 
softness. Ammonium chloride increases 
action of hypo 40 per cent. 

SHORT STOPS: 

When negative or print is developed, 
it is washed and transferred to the hypo 
(fixer). But it sometimes happens that 
during the time elapsed between these 
operations development continues to take 
place and the results are that perhaps 
overdevelopment takes place. In betweei 
these two operations (the developing and 
fixing) another bath can be added and 
that is one that is called the 'short 
stop" This bath consists of 32 ounce 
of water in which is added 1 ounce of 
acetic acid, glacial. This short stop bath 
also prevents streaks when prints ar<; 
immersed into the fixing bath. 



of 



STAINS ON THE HANDS: 

After a day's work, it is very hard to 
determme just what caused the stains on 
your hands' since you have been handlmg 

the fingers wixu «j , hands 
a few minutes, and then wasn yo 

J0ja hypo s^ution. Jhis j*^ ^ 

time. 



solution. This 
lri your Mjr^ w ™i . . di sta i n s 

the silver stains ^^J^a is 
the same tjme Anotne ' ^ 

paint the fi ^w tHrV, and then wasi 
manganate, ^^^'bisulphite. 
in a solntion of ri Sodn^ hat 

a good 



The cl eaner ^^J*^ 

«£%TZ vhrt caise 

them. 

PRINTING PHOTOS 

R ICS: - „ 

The printing 
satins, and 

for a specie -- ^ CTS 



of 

various 



ON 



pictures on 
0 P U,cr 



anfflionw 
does not 



826 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



teur let alone filling the requirements of 
the professional photographer. This ow 
method of fabric printing was unsatis- 
factory from many points of view. ± lrsx 
a lot of trouble was experienced with the 
fixation; if the photo was fixed in plain 
hvpo it meant that about 45 times out 
of 60 the picture would fade out, and it 
it was not fixed, it would blacken all 
over in a few hours. 

By adding a small amount of sulpnite 
to the hypo, it was found that the fixing 
bath performed in a more satisfactory 
manner. However, it did not improve 
the printing qualities. It did not pro- 
duce black and white images and these 
seem to be the ones most desired. The 
old formula was discovered long before 
rayon and crepe de chine fabrics were 
made, and these materials are loaded 
with a metallic salt. 

These metal loads are used by the 
manufacturers to give the cloth weight 
so that the material, when made into 
gowns, will "fall" around the shape of 
the lady for whom it was made. These 
metallic loadings are metal and when 
-they come into contact with silver salts, 
they have the same action as light has 
on the silver, that is, reduction. 

None of the many formulas that have 
been published were ever totally suc- 
cessful until last year, when a sensitizer 
was developed especially for this kind of 
work. It is sold in photographic supply 
stores in bottles ready to use under the 
name of Lerotype Sensitizer. This solu- 
tion will produce pictures in black and 
white tones on all kinds of satins and 
silks without any danger of blackening 
all over and ruining the cloth, This 
process has opened up great possibilities 
in the commercial field for making col- 
ored pictures on satin for radio grills, 
silken banners for theatre advertising, 
cloth covered buttons and inserts for 
dress manufacturers, and many other 
things which call for novel photographic 
effects. Photographers are featuring 
handkerchiefs with the owner's picture 
printed on it and the photo is perma- 
nent and will not wash out. Photo- 
finishers are giving them away as 
premiums with their regular orders. 
The formula is of a very complex na- 
ture, and if you are not a qualified 
chemist, we advise to buy the bottled 
solution from a photo supply house 
rather than attempt to mix it yourself. 

The following is a formula given bv 
the laboratories that manufacture the 
Lerotype sensitizer and it is said to be 
a very satisfactory one: 



^4, Water 32 ounces 

Nitrate of silver .... 8 ounces 

jj. — Potassium bromide . 10 grains 

Water 8 ounces 

Gelatin, pure % ounce 

Use distilled water in this formula 
Soak the gelatine from twenty to thirty 
minutes. Heat "A" to 125° p., then 
add "B" and bring the two combined 
solutions to 125° F. while working under 
a dim red light. Allow the solution to 
remain on the stove for 30 minutes at a 
constant temperature that does not ex- 
ceed 130° F. Higher temperatures spoil 
the mixture and render it worthless. 

After 30 minutes, add the following: 

Water 15 ounces 

Uranium nitrate . . 4 ounces 
Copper chloride . . % ounce 
Potassium iodide . 80 grains 
Pure gelatin % ounce 

Soak this mixture for thirty minutes 
while the first one is on the heat. Upon 
removal of the first solution from the 
heat, add the second one slowly, stirring 
constantly. Filter and pour into en- 
ameled trays set on ice so as to cool 
quickly. 

When cooled, cut up the mixture into 
small pieces, place them in a muslin or 
coarse canvas bag, and twist the bag so 
that the pressure forces the mixture out 
in the form of tiny shreds through the 
meshes of the cloth. Wash these shreds 
in five changes of cool distilled water. 
Now melt the entire mass of shreds 
until it can be poured. Pour into black 
bottles and chill from 40 to 48 hours. 
The sensitizer is then ready for use. 
Caution: Great care must be exercised 
in making this sensitizer to insure that 
no metal comes into contact with the 
solution at any time, otherwise, it will 
be ruined. Glass stirring rods and per- 
fect enamel pots and trays mast be used. 

TRANSFERRING PICTURES ON 
METAL, WOOD, LEATHER, 
GLASS: 

This is done by using a transfer paper, 
or a paper with a strong and strippabie 
emulsion. This paper can be made by- 
using the above sensitizer on paper that 
has first been coated with an insoluble 
gelatin made by the following formula* 

Sugar 75 grams 

Water 10 ounces 

Gelatin % ounce 

Soak the gelatin for twenty minutes an<* 
dissolve by heating. Select sheets or 
good bond or ledger paper and cot 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



827 



i.l this gelatin solution. Dry in 
them with dugt J{ the gdatin 

a P , tidble on the surface, give a sec- 

iS bating dry. Mix: 

on d coating g2 ounces 

h me alum' ' 2 ounces 

if the coated sheets in the alum solu- 
tion for 10 minutes, wash in plain water 

an wiS d?v "again coat the paper with 
U first gelatin solution twice, drying 
?L!pn each coat. This time do not 
bC V fnto the alum solution, but take the 
P tS oaper into the darkroom where 
^ •c to be coated with the sensitizer 
riven above for printing photos on 
loth. When the sensitizer is dry it is 
rpa dv for printing. 

Now we have three coatings on this 
™ner the first one acting merely as a 
Sating for the paper, and the second 
one Sing as an interlocking layer that 
will allow the emulsion or sensitive layer 
to be stripped from the paper. This in- 
terlocking layer will melt when the 
action of heat strikes the back of the 
picture, thus leaving the emulsion that 
carries the picture "free" for the paper 
backing to be stripped from it. (It IS 
not the object of the writer to advertise 
any product mentioned In these pages, 
but for all of those who do not have the 
time and equipment necessary to make 
this paper, it is to he purchased under 
the trade name Lcrotransfer Paper at 
most supply stores.) 

The paper is printed either contact or 
by projection and can he developed with 
any formula given for films and bromide 
papers. It is washed and fixed in 
PLAIN HYPO. The hypo must not 
be acid or contain a hardener. The 
hypo solution is water and hypo, 1 ounce 
hypo to 4 ounces of water. 

Any ordinary negative can be used to 
print and this picture can then be trans- 
ferred from its paper backing to .such 
articles as glass, cigarette cases, ladies' 
compacts, and leather goods, like wallets 
and billfolds ; in f aet, the makers claim 
that it will go on any surface. The 
print is placed on the object and pressed 
flown well so that the emulsion adheres 
to the surface. Then hold the object 
over a heater or stove so that the heat 
strikes the back of the photo. After 
about 15 seconds, the under layer of 
gelatin softens so much that the paper 
ma y be stripped off easily, leaving the 
emulsion on the object used as a new 
? u Pport. After it has thoroughly dried, 
it ean be coated with a waterproof var- 
lush. 



This paper can be used for transfer- 
ring photos to rubber or the new syn- 
thetic rubber, now being used to make 
printing cuts. This synthetic rubber 
line-cut work is becoming widely used 
and the very fact of having the photo 
transferred on the surface eliminates the 
expense of an artist's work. The trans- 
ferred picture on the rubber is black 
and if transferred to this new synthetic 
rubber which is itself black, the pict 

Cannot hp RPPn Ytv thr> nnentnv + V 



iuuu^i w iiii.il la jLscii, umcit, me picture 
cannot be seen by the operator until it 
is reversed from black to white. This 
is very easily accomplished by flowing 
over it a solution of bichloride of mer- 
cury of 1 ounce mixed with 4 ounces of 
water and 10 drops of hydrochloric acid. 

This converts the silvers over into 
mercurous chloride and they appear 
white on the black background of the 
rubber. 

Nothing more is required other than to 
wash the rubber cut in water and allow- 
ing to dry, and the cut is ready for the 
engraver, with the complete picture al- 
ready on it, for him. This transfer work 
is both very interesting and profitable. 
Pictures can be transferred to different 
colored papers and also metallic papers 
and some beautiful effects can be ob- 
tained. 

COLORED PHOTOGRAPHY: 

Great research work has been done in 
this branch of photography, and already 
some nice samples have been obtained 
on class that is viewed by transmitted 
hght, but so far, colored photography .on 
piper has not yet arrived until this 
"stripping process" comes into vogue. 

IMS simply a matter of stripping one 
photo on a P no y ther. The pictures are so 
thin bv the Lerotransfer method (for 
23a "for making P;P« 
vious) that it cannot even be felt oy 

the Angers. rP[m ired of three 

10 be tak T 

therefore three p opera- 
This can be accomph^hed m ^ ^ 
tion if one should take 1 1 _ 
building a camera to , back 

The three plates arettte ^ ^ 
of the camera and eacn th t 

color filter fitted into to ... 
tL plate i^namera The c olor filter 
loaded into the camera. 



8£S 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



that the "filter holder" contains is 4 
Sea away on the red filter, 8% inches 
on the velhW, and 3*4 inches away from 
the "blue" plate. The exposure takes 
about 11 minutes on F.8 lens wide open. 
(Experiment was on June 22nd, Chicago 
on a bright day.) 

The plates are developed and printed 
on stripping paper and then the yellow 
filter plate is toned with orange toner. 
The red filter is toned red and the blue 
one blue. 

Select a good quality piece of bristol 
board with a fine, smooth finish. Meas- 
ure off the exact position where the 
photo is to be stripped, and in each 
corner place a needle (pierced from the 
back and held firmly in place with seal- 
ing wax). These four needles act as 
the registration guides. 

After blotting off the surplus water 
from the prints, lay each print carefully 
and accurately on top of each other 
being careful that they do not slide. 
Force the three prints on the points of 
the four needles, seeing that they com- 
pletely pierce the three prints. Now, 
take the first print (no particular order 
is necessary, though yellow Is generally 
■first) and slip it carefully over the 
needles Into the registration holes you 
have previously made. When the print 
contacts the paper, run a small squeegee 
roller gently over the print (being care- 
ful not to touch the needle points with 
the roller lest the needles be forced out 
of alignment). 

Hold the cardboard over a small elec- 
tric stove (about G inches above) and 
when you see the edge of the print 
slightly contract, gently strip the paper 
from the emulsion, by tearing or cutting 
with a razor a slit so that the paper 
can he stripped from the print without 
lifting the paper back over the needles 
again, 

j Wait a few minutes until the emulsion 
is set or recovered itself from the heat, 
and then strip the next color in the same 
manner, and then proceed with the third. 
Note:— Many experimenters are get- 
mg beautiful and novel results from the 
use of just two colors such as blue and 
red, yellow and red, and yellow and blue. 

After the pictures have been trans- 
ferred on one another, they can be 
painted with a solution of % ounce of 
formalin in 5 ounces of water. This 
hardens the pictures and they can then 
be varnished with ordinary negative 
Tarnish. & 



Painting cardboard or bristol board 
one half pink and one half blue and 
then stripping a landscape picture on u 
yields effects that are admired by every- 
one to whom it is shown. 

Mottled show cardhoard and various 
artist's boards may be used as a base 
for transferring prints and yields some 
beautiful and unique effects. 

THE MINIATURE CAMERA 
How to Buy a Camera. — The popu- 
larity of the small camera has been fast 
gaining a great foothold due to the fact 
that it presents the same sales resistance 
as the big automobile does against the 
smaller one. 

The larger automobile necessitates a 
large initial outlay and then followed 
by an expensive upkeep. And the same 
thing applies to the old-fashion large 
camera as against the new miniature 
camera. 

It is true that the miniature camera 
produces only a small picture but it has 
the capabilities of being enlarged many 
many times its original negative size. 

It has however, another important ad- 
vantage, and that is the enormous speed 
that the lens of the miniature camera 
has, for instance it Is possible to "snap" 
any fast moving action with perfect 
sharpness, and can photograph a motor 
car traveling at a terrific speed of 200 
miles per hour and even an airplane 
traveling at a speed of 850 miles per 
hour. 

To purchase a lens with this speed on 
a large camera, the cost would be more 
than $1000. 

We are, therefore, giving you some 
useful information regarding the minia- 
ture camera that will enable you to pro- 
duce enlarged pictures with the same 
amount of sharpness and definition as a 
contact print from a larger camera. 

Serious photographers who but a few 
years ago would have despised pocket- 
able cameras (a 4x5 instrument was at 
one period regarded with disdain) ar e 
now working exclusively with cameras 
giving an original negative smaller than 
a postage stamp. , 

These workers include experienced 
practitioners in commercial, press, « x ~ 
ploration, pictorial and exhibition pic- 
tography, and their amazing and tecn- 
nically perfect photographs have fire 
the general run of "snapshooters," w 
are now realizing the possibilities an 
qualities of the miniature camera » nu J 
are adopting it. 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



829 



wr irers have provided us with tiny 
/ fitted with lenses of enormous 
eaB °- e «fv and exquisite defining power, 
ra ? rnilfilms of such quality, speed and 
aD , cmtsitivity as were undreamed of 
?° l0t n ? predecessors, that the intelligent 
? fnner starts level, as far as the at- 
tSent of technical excellence is con- 



cerned" with the advanced worker of 

^hrrS'nner differs only in this: he 
. Ihnlous in his aspirations; he lacks 
l h e n frSc training It the pictorialist ; 

d he is reluctant to learn the funda- 
mentals of photography. 

General and appealing advantages are 
the compactness, portability, and self- 
containedness of these miniature cam- 
eras. 

Within the space of a few square 
inches the photographer can carry at all 
hues, in a soft pocket purse or in an 
ever-ready case slung from the neck, a 
fullv equipped instrument furnished 
with a single roll of film for twelve, 
sixteen or thirty-six exposures without 
reloading and ready for instant use. 

The facility of immediate operation is, 
however, of practical value only when a 
camera is so optically endowed as to 
make the registration of the subjeet 
effectively on the film, irrespective of 
prevailing light conditions, Tegardless of 
the rapidity with which the subject is 
moving, and in despite of the amount 
of depth of field definition the photogra- 
pher desires. 

Fot this purpose the lens must possess 
great light-passing power; so it must be 
of very large aperture ; and it must _ at 
the same time have great depth of criti- 
cal definition in order that planes before 
and behind the principal object focussed 
sharply, shall be rendered recognisable 
in reasonably big enlargements. 

Good depth of definition and great 
lens rapidity are, however, incompatible 
unless the focal length of the lens is 
short. Hence, these two indispensable 
qualities can be secured in the miniature 
camera only, which is equipped as a 
standard with a lens of five or six 
centimetres focal length and of nominal 
rapidity F3.E, F2.9, and F2. 

With even this last aperture a satis- 
factory depth of field can be secured 
Without stopping down, thus allowing 
sateen times the light intensity at the 
surface as that given by a lens 
forking at F8. 



This advantage of miniature cameras 
under conditions where the utmost light 
action must be secured in photograph- 
ing rapidly moving objects when the 
illumination is far from brilliant needs 
no stressing. 

In the matter of running costs, once 
the user has mastered the operating of 
the camera and is able to handle it with 
the certainty that comes of practice, the 
expense is small, the cost of each nega- 
tive being little more than 2 cents as- 
suming the use of higher priced films 
and including the cost of developing and 
fixing them. 



MODERN HIGH-SPEED FILMS 
AND SOME OF THEIR SPE- 
CIAL CHARACTERISTICS: 

Verichrome— Highly sensitive to 
greens and yellows, almost approaching 
panchromatic in this respect. Excellent 
'for skies and clouds and portraits of 
dark persons. Ideal for photograph* 
including naked lights. 

Selochrome. — A fine film for genert 
miniature work. For portraits of verj 
fair people, when used with a pale light 
filter, gives excellent color values. 

Agfa Isochrom.— One of the bes 
films for good contrast on dull days an 
in winter. Develops quickly. 

Zeiss Ikon, Mimosa and Perutz Fi 
GraL— Specially advantageous ft 
Spying and where large commercial ai 
technical prints are wanted. 

„ T7„„ rD co An exceedingl 

action sports work. 

Shots of stage incidents. 

Zeiss Ikon ^JJS X H F a£~D H S 
the am^ng speed* f » to ^ 

daylight and j W work „ ea 

and greens. For ™f secure ^ ^ 
or a t sunset, it wiu j 

exposures. For " ^'fl* one twentj 
d/ring the summer montl ^ ^ ^ 
fifth second can oe ^ ex -p*sui 
at F22 or at £8 * fflter on tt 
with an eight times '6 lena c 

lens. Using this fim - ^ ^ 



IMPORTANT POINTS ABOUT 
LENSES: 

Lens F3.5 with 2 inch Focal Length. 
—For general, all around photography, 
sufficiently rapid, exquisite definition, al- 
lows of enlargements to any practical 
"imensions. 
Wide angle lens F3.5 with 3.5 centi- 
eters focal length. Useful for interiors, 
confined situations, architectural suo- 
'ects in narrow streets. 

Lens F1.9 with 73 mm. Focal 
enffth —Valuable for very large heads 
tage and night snapshots. The image 
iven by this lens possesses a fine "soft- 
harp" quality when taken with full 
perture, particularly effective in por- 
rait work. 

Lens F6.3 with 4 inch Focal Length, 
not telephoto type). — A useful lens for 
Ipine and other mountainous regions. 
Light in weight and gives a more im- 
osing rendering of distant mountains 
(four times the area) than standard 2 
ch lens. 

Lens F4.5 with 13.5 centimeters 
ocal Length (not telephoto type).— A 
le long focus supplement lens for dis- 
'ance, sports pictures and groups. Defi- 
ition at full aperture very good. 

Lens F2, with 5 centimeters Focal 
ength. — This lens gives most remark- 
ble definition at its full aperture, ram- 
ming enormous speed with absolutely 
eedly sharp definition over the whole 
egative area. Invaluable where very 
ig enlargements must be made from 
egatiyes taken under difficult lighting 
onditions and requiring rapid exposures. 

Lens F4.5 with 13.4 centimeters 
Focal Length. — This lens, similar in ap- 
plication to the 13.4 centimeter lens, has 
a greater resolving power than the latter. 
It has been designed for infra-red pho- 
tography of distant scenes and for 
archaeological and architectural work 
demanding the keenest definition and 
detail in the small negatives. In con- 
junction with Perutz fine grain film the 
negatives yielded seem to have no limit 
in enlarging, the magnification can be 
taken so high as to reveal the grain, 
even in the fine grain films, without 
losing the image structure. 

Lens F3.4 and F2.8.— For general 
photography. It is unnecessary to re- 
mark on the perfect correction and 



needle-sharp defining quality of thia 
famous lens. Lenses F2 and F1.5 with 
2 inch focal length are not inferior to 
this lens in correction and definition 
Their high speeds are valuable for night 
photography and when stopped down, 
they are as good as this F3.4 and F2.8 
lenses for general work. 

Lens F4 with 354 inch Focal Length 
— A useful medium long focus lens for 
big heads and general indoor and studio 
portraiture. Rapid enough for high 
speed work at 1/1000 second when one 
cannot approach closely to the per- 
formers. 

Lens F4 with 5% inches Focal 
Length— A rapid long focus lens, par- 
ticularly useful for high speed sports 
work in securing a large image on the 
film from the spectators' enclosure. As 
a supplementary lens for general narrow 
angle pictures like street groups, while 
keeping well distant from ones subjects, 
this lens is highly desirable as supporting 
the regular 2 inch lens. Since it gives an 
image equivalent in view angle to a 15 
inch focal length telelens on a % plate 
reflex, its value will be self-evident. 

The lens F3.4 and F2.8 has a sliding 
mask which can be brought in front of 
the finder lens, and which then shows a 
facsimile of the reduced view falling on 
the film when the 5% lens is in use. 

Lens F6.3 with 7 inch Focus.— This 
lens, equivalent in use to a 20 inch tele- 
lens on a % plate will be found useful 
for photographing distant villages from 
mountain heights and conversely for big- 
scale snapshots of mountain climbers 
taken from the ground. 

When using lenses of 5 inches or longer 
focal length, it is always best, whenever 
possible, to support the camera on^ a 
tripod ; this obviates vibration and ^ in- 
sures the correct placing of the subject 
on the film. A slight movement of the 
camera when the normal lens is em- 
ployed may not cut off any essential part 
of the subject. When a "long focus lens 
is in use, the image moves much more 
rapidly as the camera is moved, and the 
loss of some important feature may easily 
occur, unnoticed. 

If the camera must be held in the 
hands the fingers should firmly support 
the lens mounting, a fairly rapid speed 
be dialed, and a careful observance of 
the finder image should be maintained 
until the exposure has been made. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



to 
4 

Pi 

S . 
< 



a 
q 
© 

| 

P 

£• 
o 



O 0 
% P 



« 1 

£ b 

< g 

^ 0 

« a 

0 U5 
% 5 

W H 
»J H 

P H 

h 

fa 

ft H 

p « 

Q 

1 

B 
u 
H 
< 

Q 



831 



' I 1**1 I I 1 I 1 1 t 1 

<** *H rW Olf Tj* t- 



c c 

I I 



cw S 1 
CD O CO 
,g ,g CO - CO 



<H «M *H 

c d A. 



l l I < I / I 
2£f rf? ^ ® ?r. 



«m *£J *H- tl 

c o c a 



to ^ O (O 

n h 

lilt 



' _ « (1* W ^1 I 



IH <H tJ 

E5 CO 



TIM < -» 

O b» O iO Q CD 

*P J 



5 55 
i i 



r-l 
I 



« M S S? - S * CO » £ 



«H *e w °> ?9 

6 ,S £ W H H 



)5 a W .» » <o ^ 
*f I 



w t« «w i« t- r*n 



, . • !Wi 5 

C ' 



l i i 



? J 



(Otf **> CD <M 

I 1 1 T— I 



«t-l «t-< 



rW HIM 5 rj9 

fc- "* iS 

» CSI 

C\| H H T— i 



a c 2 *S 1-1 
,S -S <S « ^ H 

] I I I I I 



.S .5 « tq h h ~ « 

■ i i i i i i i J J 

«W rW M* O CO 
mlOHCOICiOWrtfl 

- « ^ ^ Ol 



33§ 



O l(i C-l H H 



Lens IMg inch Focal Length.— Valu- 
able for interiors and confined situations. 
The remarkable exquisite defining power 
of the lens has been recognized and 
a Ppreciated, as well as its covering 
power over a very -wide angle, for many 
years. 



F3.4 and F2.8 negatives made with 
this lens, using Zeiss Ikon special fine 
grain film, will stand an almost 
incredible degree of enlargement. 

The F3.4 and F2.B and the 1^ inch 
focal length will slip into the pocket, and 
15 by 12 enlargements from negatives 
taken with a 15 by 12 stand camera and 
a 12 inch W.A. Anastigmat. 

Architectural enthusiasts and com- 
mercial photographers can produce, with 
the miniature equipment just mentioned, 
results that can stand up to the best 
work produced in bygone days, with 
heavy and ponderous outfits. 

The Eastman Kodak Company of 
Rochester has an assortment of high- 
speed lenses to fit all the requirements 
of the small miniature cameras. And 
the full range of lenses they have will 
efficiently cover the subjects and work 
already outlined by the writer. 

After you have studied over the infor- 
mation regarding lenses already related 
by the writer, it will act as a guide in 
the purchase of your next camera or 
lens. 

HOW TO PRINT PICTURES ON 
LETTERHEADS AND IN 
SCHOOL BOOKS 

Here is a simple process that can be 
done dry without any mess and can be 
swabbed with hypo as a fixer if the 
picture is going to be exposed to strong 
light. 

r* -i y 180 grains 

fgr.SE*. :::: «S-» 

Alcohol • • ■ ■ 5 ounces 

Water 

P„t the ^tfj! 
allow it to soak for VS mm e q{ 

heat SVnd^dd the other ingredients 
100° F. and acta ™ c p oUT into 

to the order stated abo^ ^ 
dark amber bottles ana p g & 

when not m use. ^ done under red 
above solution should be T<> ^ 

light or a aim orwgs S 5olution on 
simply rub a Uttle ol place 
the paper and gow M» ^ {on ^ 
negative over the sens negative 
I Piece of d«™ jK^th the sensiteed 
to hold it in ^fL'Sass may be used 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



for about two minutes. A photoflood 
lamp requires a slightly longer exposure. 

The process described above has been 
used in printing pictures on the pages of 
a book without detaching the leaves or 
pages from the book. If the photograph 
o made is to be exposed to light very 
uch, it should be swapped over lightly 
ith a piece of absorbent cotton and a 
ypo solution (1 ounce of hypo to 3 
unees of water). 

OW TO ENLARGE PICTURES 
DIRECT ON WALLBOARD OR 
WALLS OF THEATRES AND 
TAVERNS: 

The walls of the theatre or tavern that 
e picture is to be projected upon 
hould be in good condition as to the 
laster. Cracks should be filled with 
laster of Paris or a patching plaster 
and allowed to dry several days before 
any of the following operations are 
begun. Before applying the sensitizer, 
the wall must have a primary coating of 
isoluble gelatin. This is made by 
llowing y a pound of hard gelatin to 
oak in one gallon of water for 30 
mtes. The mixture is then heated to 
temperature of 130° P. and 2 drams 
f carbolic acid are added to the mix- 
re. This mixture is then painted on 
he walls and allowed to dry. Some 
ecommend spraying the mixture on the 
all and if too thick to operate in A 
prayer, thin it by adding an equal 
mount of warm water and then giving 
■wb coats, allowing the first to dry 
efore applying the second. 

When the coating is dry, a solution of 

Chrome alum 4 ounces 

W atei " 16 ounces 

Tannic acid, 
10 per cent 1 ounce 

sprayed or washed on the wall. This 
olution renders the solution insoluble 
or al1 subsequent operations. 

The formula for a sensitizer for use 
on walls is the same as the one civen 
reviously for Printing on Fabric! It 
»tL T ? e ,P u t rchased at a Photographic 
XI 7 ^ nder the trade nlme 

Lerorap,d". The sensitizer is applied 

rush f?n repar t^ 1Va i 1 SUrface w * h a 

usTto^ S « een removed - No metal 
,ust touch the sensitizer, and it is for 

-moved W that - the - etal ™£ £ 



ENLARGEMENTS 

Times of Enlargement and Reduction 



O 01 



2* 

3 

3i 
4 

4* 
5 

Si 
6 

7 

8 



10 
10 



11 
11 



12 
12 



14 
14 

To 

16 



18 
IS 



7i 
3f 



9 

4£ 



10J 

5i 



12 
6 



13* 

6| 



15 

n 



16^ 

3 

18 
9 



21 
lOi 

24~ 



8 

n 



10 



12 
4 



14 

41 



16 



18 
6 



20 

6^ 



22 

71 



24 



27 



28 
32 



36 



IU 12 



10 



si 



15 

3f 



171 

3 

20 " 
5 

W\ 
5l 



25 



27 3. 



30 



35 

8^ 



40 
10 



45 
11- 




Application of the sensitizer must be 
done in dim red light or total darkness. 
AVhen it has begun to set or dry, the 
image is projected upon it from the 
enlarger. The length of exposure de- 
pends upon the size of the negative used 
and the size of the finished print. A 
negative of normal density, size 8 x 10 
inches may be enlarged to about 12 feet 
in length and will take about 18 minutes 
of exposure. It is a good idea to have 
the image already focussed upon the 
wall before the sensitizer is applied. 

Developing is done by spraying th e 
sensitized area with the developer given 
previously for Copv and Process nega- 
tives. It is a good idea to dilute the 
developer somewhat so that the action 
will be slowed enough for control. Should 
the image show signs of over-developing* 
spray it quickly with a solution of glacial 
acetic acid 4 ounces mixed in one gallon 
of water. This stops the developing- 



t ;~ 

y 2 pound 

y 2 pound 
\y z gallons 



Tbe feer b then sprayed on. It is 
l l>c 5 pounds 

Koniun.' chloride 
potassium meta- 

bisulpln te 

Water 

t suture may be washed by spray- 
^■J?riX water after which it may 
ing ; ,d to any desired color by using 
be *^ tonew given in this chapter. 
° n vZ operations do not require much 
lh JT* cood operator may complete 
^ e en a tt a joh°in about one hour. 
Ordinary Billboard paper may be sen- 
sed and processed the same as above 
S nlv it not necessary to give it a 
on % ■ , v sizintr Pictures are limited 

increase of exposure time 



MISCELLANEOUS FORMULAS 
REVERSAL OF THE IMAGE: 

Following the development and after a 
short washing in running water, immerse 
the plate in a dish-containing 8 ounces 
of the reversing solution and take the 
dish out in full light. The plate which 
was opaque, clears, and the colors 
hecome more and more visible by trans- 
mitted light. After half or one-and-a- 
half minutes, when the plate bears no 
more trace of negative image, take it out 
of the dish and wash it for about 30 
seconds in running water. 

Reversing Solution. — 

Potassium . , 30 grains 

permanganate .... (2 grams) 

Sulphuric acid 3 drams 

(10 cubic centimeters j 

Water 35 ounces 

(1000 cubic cen- 
timeters) 

This solution will keep for a short 
time, but should not be used if cloudy. 

Immediately the plate is covered by 
the solution daylight may be used. 

Second Development.— The plate ^ is 
then re-developed in full daylight, using 
the solution which has served for the 
first development, (kept in the dish with- 
out special precautions). When the 
highlights are completely darkened 
(about 3 or 4 minutes) the plate is 
hashed for 8 or 4 minutes, and imme- 
diately placed to dry. Fixing is m- 
lecessarv unless the plate is intensified. 



Ground-Glass Varnish. — 

Sandarac 90 grains 

(103 grams) 

Mastic 20 grains 

(23 grams) 

Ether (0.720) 2 ounces 

(1000 cubic cen- 
timeters) 

Dissolve the resins in the ether and 
afterwards add 

Benzole % to l"Vs ounces 

(250-T50 cubic 
centimeters) 
The proportion of the benzole added 
determines the nature of the matt 
obtained. 

This varnish must be applied to the 
cold negative or the coating will not 
matt. 

Retouching Medium. — 

Pale gum resin . . . 200 grains 
(230 grams) 

Gum dammar 90 grains 

(100 grams) 

I Gum mastic 20 grains 

(23 grams) 

Oil of iuniper 1 dram 

J (60 cubic 

centimeters) 

Oil of turpentine . 24 ounces 

(1000-2000 cubic 
centimeters) 

The gums are powdered and added to 
the oils, and finally enough pure asphal- 
tum is added to give the mixture a dark 
amber color when viewed through the 

^TWsl ormSa^s strongly recommended 
-t pick, rub off or come Z 
on after-varnishmg. It takes a e 
deal of work. 

direct 

Before ^^"^bTdoi^ u> 

of superficial oxidation. 

Zinc 

2Y2 ounces 

Alum ■ ■ ■ ■ 1 ounce 

Nitric acid 2g oun ces 

f/bout 30 seconds' version) 

. ftsbst soiuUon 

100 grans. . . .J" V 
40C ?taeS:(B<>^ Si to m e IS .o n ) 



or 



1000 cubic 

centimeters , d so i ut ioP 

8 P er ( fotmu°tesinirnersion) 



SS-k 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



They arc then rinsed and rapidly dried 
With a fan or by means of a jet of com- 
pressed air, which drives the water away, 
The printing may be .effected by the 
bitumen or the bichromated albumen 
process, but with a few modifications. 
In order that an image may be used 
efficiently as a lithographic resist, it must 
be formed of greasy ink incorporated 
with the stone or metal, and not merely 
held in some way on its surface. When 
the printing has been carried out by the 
bitumen process, it is then necessary^ to 
replace the bitumen by greasy ink 
everywhere and yet without any en- 
croachment over the parts corresponding 
to the whites of the image, in which the 
metal must remain bare. For this pur- 
pose, after development of the bitumen 
print, rinsing and rapid drying, the 
metal is covered with a somewhat thick 
solution of gum freshly prepared (to 
which may be added an aniline dye which 
will enable its application to be more 
easily controlled), and this is dried as 
quickly as possible. When the gum is 
completely dry, the plate is washed with 
benzene, which dissolves the bitumen, and 
is rolled with stone-to-stone retransfer 
ink thinned to a liquid consistency with 
turpentine. The solvent is allowed to 
evaporate, and the plate is washed with 
water to re-dissolve the gum, which has 
completely protected the underlying 
metal from any contact with the ink. 
The image being now formed of greasy 
ink, the "etching" and the gumming of 
the metal may be proceeded with. 

Printing by the albumen process as 
usually practised does not lend itself to 
photo-metallography, as the compara- 
tively thick coating of insolubilized albu- 
men completely isolates the greasy ink 
from the metal. 

The solution of albumen must be as 
dilute as possible, while yet permitting 
the image to be developed without diffi- 
culty; on coarse-grained metal it is, 
however, necessary to use a slightlv more 

concentrated solution. A few prelimin- 
ary e xp nts ^ 

^Znef SUit6d t0 Cach <** t0 ^ 

Gtiffer 'J h0t( r trans ^" ^k must not be 
formula * ,S necess «y* the following 
lormula, gives good results: 

Litho writing ink (sticks) . . 2 parts 
Bfu°men tranSfer ^ " ' " ■ ? S"* 

on of lavender':::;;;;;;; } 



For use this ink must be thinned with 
benzene or turpentine, but the latter 
must have been freshly manufactured. 

Immediately after development, the 
metal must be flushed with a freshly pre- 
pared 20 per cent solution of gum arabic 
the surplus of which is removed with a 
wet rag, and the plate is then dried 
rapidly. After this drying, or at any 
rate within one hour at most, after which 
time the ink would already be too hard 
to enable the operations to be proceeded 
with under satisfactory conditions, the 
following "washing-out mixture" is ■ 
spread over the image so as to cover it 
evenly, but without any unnecessary 
excess: 

Turpentine 40 parts 

Litho writing ink .... 1 part 
Powdered bitumen ... 2 parts 

The solvent is now allowed to evapo- 
rate, the thin film of ink which formed 
the original image meanwhile dissolving 
in the turpentine and forming a new ink, 
which being very greasy and fluid, has 
been able to penetrate down to the metal 
through the very thin coating of albumen, 
and to give a firm seating to the image. 
After the greasy liquid is completely dry, 
the gum is moistened with a wet rag, the 
plate is rolled up with ordinary litho- 
graphic ink, then the metal is "etched," 
gummed again, and dried rapidly with a 
fan. 

WHAT ARE PERCENTAGE 
SOLUTIONS? 

The usual practice in making a solu- 
tion to a specified percentage strength is 
to consider the weight of the substance 
to be dissolved in relation to the volume 
of the completed solution. Thus, to make 
a 10 per cent solution, we dissolve 1 
ounce avoirdupois in enough water to 
make the volume of the solution 10 fluid 
ounces. If, however, the object is to 
make a solution of which some sub-divi- 
sion of a fluid ounce will contain a grain 
or an exact number of grains, then the 
number of minims or drachms of the 
completed solution must be an exact 
multiple of the number of grains _ dis- 
solved. Thus if 1 ounce avoirdupois of 
437.5 grains be dissolved in enough 
water to make the volume of the solu- 
tion 4,375 minims (approximately 9 
ounces 1 drachm) every 10 minims of the 
solution will contain grain of the sub- 
stance. 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



835 



^trTTP AND REVERSIBLE 1 
tf° VlE DEVELOPERS 

ttVERSAL DEVELOPMENT: 

B . ,rp many ways of effecting the 
Ther i ^ Tevelopment foT « mo vie» 
revC . r 5L and the best formula that 
projection, gerfeg of comp i ica ted 

t e n e es "'ound below. 
However, the rnost popular -method is 
•?f another film from the negative 
t0 n Pr this method is recommended by 
TOl 'v camera clubs, for the reason that 
fool proof, and very easily done. 
The difference in the price is about 50 
* . fcArween the reversal development 
C ^ the positive print, and this is off-set 
S fact that the negative roll is 
and any section can be used for a 
Slow ^ "an enlargement) at any time, 
wherea?if the reversal development is 
£e one has to make a negative print 
from the reversed negative (which would 
be a positive). 

A simple device can be made at home 
fof an outlay of a dollar and a few hours 
work to enable one to print a positive 
roll from a negative. 

Secure a box, or make one (20 mches 
square and three inches deep). In tne 
two bottom corners, place a small axle 
and turn handle to hold two spools. 
From the left hand corner, the film will 
travel up to another small roller, 6 inches 
from the side and two inches from the 
top-the film then travels 8 inches across 
the box onto another small roller, and 
from there, down to the empty spool m 
the left corner of the bottom of the box. 

Between the two top small rollers, a 
hole is cut in the top of the box, and a. 
small paper cylinder inserted (about & 
inches long) and the same size as your 
film (16 millimeter or 32 millimeter). A 
small 25 'watt reflected bulb is fitted. 
OUTSIDE the box, so as it will sboW 
light for the printing to be effected, 
through the paper cylinder. 

Before printing, the positive roll of 
Wm and the exposed film has to be re 
'wound onto the ONE spool. Use a 
little film cement to make sure that tne 
films will not "slide", and be sure that 
both films have an equal grip onto tne 
^pty spool you are to Tewind onto. 

Once these spools are wound together, 
all there has to be done is to treadle tne 
double film from the full spool up onto 
tbe small roller across the "light cyl- 
inder" over the other small roller and 
down to the empty spool. 



Two complete revolutions per second 
is about the speed for average negatives 
(slower if dense, and slightly faster if 
flat or weak negative roll has to be 
used) . 

The steps in the process comprise 
vigorous development of the negative 
image; chemically removing the silver; 
washing the roll with only enough light 
to deliberately under-expose the remain- 
ing silver halide positive image, so as 
to permit a partial positive image and 
separately flashing each of the scenes 
with the additional amount of light such 
that the partial positive image of each 
of the scenes visibly indicates the neces- 
sity for the desired intensification, ano" 
then submitting the roll to final develop 
ing and finishing operations. 

These operations are carried out in a 
series of tanks. One tank is designed to 
permit the undeveloped negative cine 
film to receive a vigorous negative de- 
veloper bath of approximately 12 
I minutes' duration in order to fully bring 
out the negative image. This and sub- 
sequent baths are preferably at 68° F. 

A preferred formula for the bath in 
tank 10 is 



nyim^ m ( « 

Soda carbonate 

Metol (1.3 grams) 

Potassium bromide 



Water, to make . . 



in 



13 grains 
(1.5 grams) 
20 ounces 
(1000 cubic 
centimeters) 

Film is then rinsed, and then rever; 
potassium bichromate 



63 
(6 



grains 
drams) 



Sulphuric acid, con- ^ 
centrate 



Water, to make 



drams 
(10 cubic 
centimeters) 
20 ounces 
(1000 cubic 
centimeters) 

Film Is again rinsed and cleaned^ for 

6 minutes in 2 00 grains 

Soda sulphite ^ 3 grams) 

20 ounces 
Water, to make ^ 1000 cub j C 




PHOTOGRAPHY 



The film is again rinsed and then 
travels under a definite under-exposure 
light-source at the approximate speed of 
twenty feet per minute. It is important 
that this exposure be limited to approxi- 
mately Sixty candle-meter seconds, which 
will at this point assure a deliberate and 
definite under-exposure to commercial 
cinema film, The purpose of this step 
is to guard against any possibility of 
subsequently over-exposing any scenes 
that were badly exposed in the camera. 

In the next tank, the film receives a 
partial positive developer bath of 
approximately one minute in duration, 
viz. : 

Potassium ferrocyanide. 32 grains 

(3.7 grams) 

Metol 2Vi grains 

(0.25 gram) 

Soda sulphite 135 grains 

(15.6 grams) 

Hydroquinone 21 grains 

(2.4 grams) 

Potassium bromide ... 21 grains 

(2 A grams) 

Potassium carbonate . . 185 grains 

(21.1 grams) 

Sodium nitrite . . 4^2 grains 

(0.5 grams) 

Water, to make . . 20 ounces 

(1000 cubic 
centimeters) 

The object of this bath is to partially 
develop the latent partial positive image 
previously under-exposed in the preced- 
ing step. 

The film next emerges from this tank 
nd passes over the safelight, the light 
f which is transmitted through the film 
to enable the operator to observe the 
scene as it passes before him. At this 
oint, the operator flashes each scene 
with an additional amount of light that 
the visual inspection of the scene indi- 
cates as desirable to bring up its in- 
tensity. r 

The film then re-enters the re-de- 
veloper tank and re-emerges where it 
passes over another safelight. At this 
point the operator again observes each 
of the scenes as it passes before him, 
and again flashes each scene with a final 
hicrement of light as each scene indicates 

S„ iTv able f ° r its intensification. It 
Should be noted here that there is a 
possibility that some scenes may now 

t£n ear T? n f ed n ° further inteJsifical 
the n J * ? S JUSt desc "bed enable 
inL?« .-° r t0 give each sce »e the 
intensification it requires, thereby 



properly compensating not only for the 
original exposure in the camera, but also 
for the central point of interest in eacQ 
scene. 

Next the film may pass through an- 
other tank, where it is treated with a 
positive re-developer bath for approxi^ 
mately seven minutes. The formula of 
the solution in this tank is preferably the 
same as that previously used. 

The film next passes through a fourth 
rinsing bath. 

The film then passes through a fixing 
bath for approximately five minutes. A 
formula for this bath is as follows; ■ 

Hypo 4, ounces 

(200 grams) 

Sodium sulphite 90 grains 

(10 grams) 

Glacial acetic acid .... 1% drams 

(10 cubic 
centimeters) 

Chrome alum 175 grains 

(20 grams) 

Water, to make 20 ounces 

(1000 cubic 
centimeters) 

The process up to this point is carried 
on in a suitable safelight. From this 
point the process may be conducted in 
white light. The film is next thoroughly 
washed. 

RECOVERY OF SILVER FROM 
OLD HYPO SOLUTIONS: 

The price of silver has increased 60 
per cent in the last three months, and 
the amount of silver thrown away in old 
hypo solutions is more than interesting, 
"it's serious," and a waste of money. 

Here is a simple formula for the 
recovery of silver from hypo. To throw 
down the silver from waste hypo baths, 
liver of sulphur is used. The chemical is 
dissolved to a strong solution and is 
added to the hypo baths which have been 
allowed to accumulate to the bulk of, say 
20 to 30 gallons, in a wooden cask. As 
the solution is added, the hypo is stirred 
vigorously with a flat piece of wood, as 
long as a dark precipitate is thrown 
down. With acid baths there is the 
foul smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, 
though this can be largely prevented by 
adding caustic potash or caustic soda 
solution along with the liver of sulphur. 
Even if the caustic is added, the opera- 
tion should be carried on outdoors. The 
sludge of silver sulphide is given a day 
or two to settle thoroughly, the clear 
liquor is then run off with a' siphon tube 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



- fhe caS k may be refilled with waste 
Bn d t flC , t}lt . operation of throwing 

h)T°> % veT repeated. When sufficient 
down siJvc acc ^ mulated at the bottom 

sluap o . t ig remove d, and spread 
to dry* ' fl f ter w ^ich it is sent tt> the 

re 5£ S : silver is pure, it has a specific 
•tv of 10.B, and is very malleable 
gr f!i;,rtile: melts at a bright red heat. 
S does not oxidize in the air, but 

. «-nnsed to an impure atmosphere 
£SSg ^ aces of ^P^ftted hydro- 
it is slowly tarnished, from forma- 
f en ' nf sulphide of silver. It dissolves in 
Sng bofling sulphuric acid but the 
hest solvent for it is nitric acid 

The standard coin of the realm is an 
alloy of siIver and C0 PP er > contaimn S 
92.5 per cent of silver 

To prepare pure nitrate of silver from 
it dissolve in nitric acid by aid of heat, 
and evaporate until crystals are ob- 
tained Then wash the crystals with a 
little dilute nitric acid, redissolve them 
in water, and crystallize by evaporation 
a second time. 

MAKING NEW PHOTOS FROM 
OLD AND FADED ONES: 

First clean the print by rubbing it 
gently, yet firmly, with a tuft of cotton- 
wool. It is surprising to find what a lot 
of fine dust and dirt can be got off an 
old print in this way. A room with a 
good large window should be selected, 
and the print fixed up flat against the 
wall, so that the window light falls 
nearly perpendicularly on the print. If 
a sidelight be used, the negative will 
probably show a lot of tiny cracks which 
the eye has not noticed. These crack- 
marks will show unpleasantly in the 
print copy. 

The camera should be set up so that 
the lens is opposite the center of the 
P«nt, and the ground glass truly verti- 
cal- To facilitate focussing, tear from 
a newspaper a strip of bold print half an 
inch wide and, say, a foot long, and pin 
this diagonally across the face of the 
P™it. It i S f ar easier to see when such 
jype matter is in focus than when a pho- 
tographic print is in focus. Use the larg- 
est stop that will give good bright 

-nitii ■ • -- 

do not 



837 

we hardly see L% P le / eUow3sh tin *> 
ewh.F* ; t:? fln , e detail* on the 



But 



the ordinary platens particularly 

to yellow, so that verv often it L 7* 

-i the plate has not .1^/ 



->r tne plate has not been 
and yet not under-exposed eitheSthat 

ZIZ rd in a 7n Pl ? e SCemS to -stored 
image in a quite remarkable way in 
fact, this is much in the same wa/thS 
the ordinary plate accentuates (ylllow) 

the pink flesh surroundings. 

It will now be clear that a good deal 
depends on giving just enough exposure 
to get good strong density in the plain 
paper parts of our print; anything 
beyond this is detrimental, inasmuch as 
it means a reduced chance of securing 
the very faint or faded yellow details of 
the original picture. 

HOW TO COPY CRACKED 
PRINTS: 

In order to copy a print which is 
covered with minute cracks, a good plan 
is to rub powdered chalk into the cracks 
before the copy is made. If the copy 
negative is afterwards enlarged, it is 
possible to spot out even the most 
minute cracks, which will appear white 
in the enlargement. The chalk, if lightly 
rubbed in, will not injure the print, and 
can be brushed out when it has served 
its purpose. 

RETOUCHING: 

Negatives which have been re- 
touched" in the professional sense can- 
not be enlarged. Retouching is seldom 
Squired however, in amateur work, 

pecially if the negatives are made^n 
a panchromatic emulsion, and are tuny 
e^csed. Under-exposure is the came of 
the need for nine-tenths of tne Tetu 

% wMch ^^n^^s 

to be able to do: and m mo anjenab i e 
negatives are too dense t . g tQ 

to the process at all. . i * de re 
be retouched, it must whic h 



-*k> ILL A UtU3 L I J Lil I Tf nv>« f 

'paphic print is in focus. Use the larg- 
est stop that will give good bright 
^niution with the focussing strip, but, 
0 not forget to remove this strip before 
^ing the exposure. 

sW * C0 Py in g old and faded prints, a 
°w ordinary landscape plate will give 

With Jesult than an 0Tth0 - P fe tC 
*. n 0T without a yellow screen. The 
the faded image is there 



' r. et ° U w applying something whicn 
_ptive by a fV l ir l % pencd. A 

Shall give a tooth for ttej fl he 

special kind of ^ n ^ uchin g medium, 
purpose, kn °^ tn aS th S pages). A mere 
formula given in these p fc J 0 

frace of this is » »Pl£^on the gelatin 
the part of the negaov , > hedt and 
side, which is to i be re b » when 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



a convenient angle with the light behind 
it. A large printing frame, with a piece 
of glass in it, will often serve, and on 
the glass may be put a piece of card to 
support the negative on its top edge. A 
irood quality H pencil is the best to use, 
and this 'should be most carefully 
sharpened to a very long fine point. The 
tip should be an inch or more from 
the commencement of the paper. Fine 
emery paper is useful to give the last 
touch to the lead point. When the 
medium has become sufficiently dry, we 
may place the negative on its support, 
and then proceed to work upon it, 

The precise nature of the pencil- 
stroke in retouching must be left to the 
taste of the worker. The easiest plan I 
have always found is to make short, fine 
lines side by side. In fact, it resolves 
itself into delicate, but not "niggly" 
shading. There should be no attempt to 
get a lot of lead on in any one place by 
using a soft pencil or exerting any pres- 
sure, as this will result either in remov- 
ing the medium or in breaking the point. 
Stippling a series of dots will often 
serve; while some photographers work 
with a fine circular movement of the 
pencil, taking it off as little as possible, 
making a continual series of minute 
rings, keeping the pencil on the negative 
and always on the move, running lightly 
from one little defect to another, filling 
in thin places, blending all the harsh 
lights and darks, until the effect desired 
has been obtained. It is a good plan to 
start retouching by taking a negative of, 
say, some foliage which is a little in- 
clined to appear spotty, and endeavour- 
ing, by the use of the pencil, to make the 
more transparent parts of the negative 
print lighter, so that the spottiness is 
less pronounced. Not only is it excel- 
lent practice, but such an application of 
retouching is more likely to be useful to 
the amateur photographer than is its 
employment in portraiture, which calls 
for other skill and knowledge than the 
mere ability to darken a light patch to 
the depth of its surroundings. If the 
medium does not seem able to take all 
the pencil we would like to put on, it is 
not a sign that it has been improperly 
applied, but that we are trying to add 
to J n . uc t . The mere st trace of lead is 
sufficient, if the negative is not over- 
uense. 

The amateur retoucher had better 
begin by using an exteremely hard lead 
pencil, such as HHH or HHHH being 
perhaps the most suitable, and the point 
should be sharpened in the following 



manner: — The pencil point should always 
be kept very sharp by rubbing on fine 
emery paper- Now touch the abraded 
surface over the pinhole in a circular 
manner till the hole is no longer visible. 
It is as well after several pinholes have 
been retouched to take a print from the 
same to see whether they show or not. 

Instead of the cuttle-fish advised 
above, any of the following retouching 
varnishes may be used. They can be 
applied with the finger-tip or a wad of 
cotton-wool direct to the film side of the 
negative without any other preparation. 
Do not use too much — a little goes a 
very long way; just a smear is sufficient. 



Amber resin ....... 10 grains 

Benzole I ounce 

Dissolve, and allow to subside for 
twenty-four hours before use. 

2 

Gum dammar 10 grains 

Canada balsam .... 5 grains 
Turpentine 1 ounce 

3 

Sandarac 6 grains 

Shellac 36 grains 

Mastic 3G grains 

Ether 12 drams 

Dissolve, and add 

Benzole 2 drams 

In retouching portraits, it is not how 
much one may do to a negative, but how 
little; not crowding the lead on, but 
placing it just where the least work will 
give the most effect. 

There is no particular kind of stroke 
to learn that will enable one to become a 
retoucher, but just where there is a line, 
freckle or mark, or whatever the defect 
may be, carefully fill that part so that 
it comes even with the surrounding part, 
and that kept up gradually will be found 
to result in a nice "grain" in retouching 
talk, or stipple, as others call it. Dur- 
ing the progress of the work occasionally 
look at the negative reversed, sitting well 
back, taking a general survey of it, and 
where the work looks patchy, blend the 
patches into each other. 

Should the work not be satisfactory, " 



can easily be taken off by rubbing over 
with the rag and a little turpentine, an° 
fresh medium applied; and in case » 
negative requires a great deal of w° rK ' 
say a big head (freckled), when n 0 ™^' 
can be got on the film, varnish tn 
negative, and when quite cold apply x " 
medium as before and continue the ^ Dr 



the 
the 

* I 



c0 pyKlGHT RIGHTS 

hiect of copyright is one that 
Th Viv concerns the photographer or 
itl tiDiateiy ^ kind of picture i n any 

producer „ re sent law of copyright 

medium- J ^ e Copyri ght Act, 1911, 
\S takes tlfe place of the Act of 1862. 

S> aI Punier 
Janhic worker. 



ffbicl J Sing notes summarise the prin- 
Tbe /°S^ of interest to the pnoto- 
^ worker. ^ . 

F The law relating to portraiture is as 
J as photography itself. Under the 

°\a Art of it: waS ne , cessar y f ° r * 

°l * JJanher to register his copyright 
l^ P a registration fee. This is not 
^reauired- the mere taking of the 
CoSph automatically confers copy- 
P ht irT the taker of the negative, or, 
A™ him his correct title "the 
thnr" This rule, like most others, is 
S c t to exceptions, of which the case 
oFportrHiture comes first. If a visit is 
made to the studio of a professional 
photographer for the purpose of having 
a portrait taken, on the usual terms of 
payment for a number of copies, the 
copvright belongs to the sitter and not 
to the taker; but, notwithstanding this, 
the sitter cannot demand from the 
photographer the negative from which 
the prints were made, as the implied 
contract is simply for a number of 
prints, and the negative remains the 
property of the photographer, His 
rights in it are not of much value to 
him because he can be restrained from 
selling the prints to illustrated papers, 
or dealing with the negative in any way 
except for the use of his customer. 

Now this only applies to cases where 
the sitter pays the photographer. If 
there is no payment, no matter whether 
the photographer is an amateur or a pro- 
fessional, both the copyright in the 
photograph and the property in the 
negative belong to him and he can do as 
he pleases providing it is not to the dis- 
advantage of the sitter. 

The other important exception to the 
Hie that the copyright belongs to the 
author is in the case of a press photog- 
rapher who is merely employed by some 
JJj^spaper or publisher. In this case, 
cae C0 Pyright belongs to the employer. 

In regard to sub]ects other than por- 
fcT tB: if a Photograph is taken— perhaps 
™? ! &n ori ginal point of view— of some 
JJ* known object, the author cannot 
exclusive right to his originality. 
"}ers may go to this identical spot and 
- a * e as many exposures as they wish. 



but it is not illegal. What is illegal is 
to copy an actual print, but th? aw 
does not prevent an/ number "of person! 
photographing the same object 

. Copyright is granted in practically all 
civilized countries although Holland has 
not copyright laws, at the present time. 
Certain countries of the world have 
tormed themselves into an International 
Copyright Union, so that the creation of 
copyright in one of these countries gives 
copyright protection to the rest of the 
countries of the Union. These countries 
forming the Union agreed to this at a 
convention at Berlin in 1908. The fol- 
lowing countries aTe in this Union: 
Great Britain, France, Germany, Bel- 
gium, Italy, Denmarkj Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, Norway, Portugal, Japan, 
Luxembourg, Hayti, Liberia, Monaco, 
and Tunis. Important countries not in 
this Union are the United States, Aus- 
tria, and Russia,' but it is possible for 
non-American owners of copyright to 
have protection in the United States by 
separate registration. This also applies 
to a certain extent to other countries not 
in the Union. 

HOW TO MAKE ENLARGE- 
MENTS ON CANVAS: 

Now that there are many kinds of 
sensitizers in bottled form on the open 
market (obtainable from all Eastmai or 
photo-supply stores or from a smtab 
formula given in this book), the artist 
wTtod many short cuts wbch save 
many days of work, beside the fact of 
Sufprospective and correct facial re- 

eommercM artists today f 
producing absolute true ^ 
paintings, by using ever y-da 
Snail negative : from an> , f ^ 
camera is all that is rf ft g 
an enlarger. Any g rega rdless o 

pared canvas can be usea^e . 



parcu p canva s. The canvas 

the size of the can th 
stretched and ^0. t sensitizer is 
usual way, and «e Dot & brUS 

applied with ^on-wool al ^ } 
/-that is free from 1U , - t can va 

"when the «P° s ""e anl T| 



840 



PHOTOGRAPHY 



semi-dry and then tacked back on to the 
frame. 

You now have an exact reproduction 
of the subject with all its half-tones and 
shadows. Now it is only a matter of 
"filling in" with oils and the resulting 
picture is true to life. 

The same process can be applied to 
oil-paintings for silk, satins, suede, vel- 
vets, etc., or on to polished wood, ivory, 
leather, etc. 

PHOTOGRAPHY IN 
NATURAL COLORS 
Natural color photography is some- 
thing that is now passing into a reality, 
and high prices are paid for photos in 
natural colors. 

In making color photos one must 
understand that a negative in natural 
colors must be obtained first and there 
are several ways of doing this. 

A natural color "one shot" camera can 
be purchased or if the camera fan is 
handy with tools he can build himself 
one. Another manner which, is the more 
popular, is to buy a roll of natural color 
films (either the Dufray or Eastman's 
Kodacolor). These films arc loaded into 
any ordinary camera and the picture 
taken in the usual manner, only an addi- 
tional 25 per cent has to be added to all 
the normal exposures, unless you trade 
in your present lens for a faster one. 
This is because color films are not as 
quick as the ordinary orthochromatic. 

These films are developed in a revers- 
able developer (see elsewhere in this 
book) and then fixed and allowed to dry 
in the usual manner. The next step is to 
get the natural color film image on paper 
so as it can be viewed by reflected light 
(like an ordinary photo). The film is 
placed in an ordinary printing frame and 
three prints taken from it onto panchro- 
matic film. But each film has to be 
filtered so that each film will contain the 
color it requires and the colors not re- 
quired will be "stopped" by the action of 
the filter used. 

These filters are sold by all photo and 
kodak stores. You need red, blue and 
green. Make sure you buy filters the 
same size as your films. The green filter 
J« used to make red film, the blue filter 
tor the red film and the red filter is 
used for the yellow film. If four color 
natural plates are needed, you make four 
Wms using the yellow filter for the 
black nlate. 



These red, blue and green films are 
printed on stripping film and toned i n 
the colors colled for, and when these 
very thin stripping films are laid on 
paper, one on top of another, a natural 
color photograph is the result. 

After you have printed the three films 
through their respective filters (giving 
them the exposure you will find marked 
on the film box called "film factors") 3 
these films are developed in the usual 
manner and allowed to dry. While they 
are drying it is advisable to prepare the 
paper that you will need later on. Take 
a piece of ordinary azo photographic 
paper and place it in hypo (without ex- 
posure or development). After fixing 
wash well and allow to dry. 

When the separated color films are dry, 
contact each of these films on a good 
grade of stripping paper (The Defender 
Company manufactures a fine grade of 
stripping paper which can be purchased 
from any Kodak store). Contact these 
strip films in the same way as you do 
ordinary paper, develop (M.Q.) fix and 
wash. When these films are well washed, 
they are toned in the red, blue and yel- 
low toners. Being careful to tone the 
red film that you used the green filter 
on, and continue as previously outlined. 

W T hen the three stripping films are 
toned, they arc squeeged on the piece of 
azo paper, first the yellow, then the blue, 
and finally the red. That only makes 
three colors. But where the photograph 
runs from high lights into deep shadows, 
the reds may cross the blues and the re- 
sult will be many delightful shades of 
lavender or deep violets, either finishing 
in deep reds or dense blue. 

The fourth plate, black, is never used 
except when making natural color photo- 
graphs for the metal engravers. This 
black "plate" is then used for outlining. 

There is another way of making nat- 
ural color plates with colored films. Or- 
dinary panchromatic films may be used 
in a "studio, and the filters are placed 
over the camera lens and three films can 
be shot in this manner one after the 
other. However, one has to be careful 
to see that the camera is well fastened 
to the floor and that nothing is moved 
while the three plates are being made. 
As little as a 64th of an inch would ruin, 
foT when you placed your toned picture 
over each other they "would not register- 
When the three-toned strip films are 
squeeged on top of each other, the tare 
primary colors you used in toning tn ^ 
strip films will, in turn, give about seve 
or eight different colors. 



ctriD films arc very durable and 
beS f, -And very little trouble in han- 



them. 



You will find a ready mar 
of these natural color 



dling lut r; sa]e of these natural color 
ket f ° r "£ ng the photo buyers men- 
P. h °ld in this edition. 
txon , Photography is made possible 
Color P™^ e fa f r approximation of all 
because a / stained by the mixture 



COX^= - - J t J S poSSlDie Illume U, 

ot j «te photographic record of any one 
separate P hree b co]ors w ith a color-sen- 
^• Xanchromatic) plate by placing 
sitlV f S fitter in front of the lens during 
a C Lqiik The filter permits certain 

th lrXT^ throli e h ' Y h i le the ot £ ers 

a 5 e blocked, or prevented from reaching 

fegfby using three filters tinted in 
If tee 7 so-called "taking" colors, 
leen, bluish-purple, and orange-red, a 
Kate negative record of each of 
Use maybe made on three photographic 
Sates When these arc printed sepa- 
rately in the three complementary 
printing colors, bluish-red, yellow, and 
greenish-blue, and combined together, 
they give back the original colors of the 
subject. Thus, mixtures of greemsh- 
bhie and yellow give all of the greens, 
greenish-blue and bluish-red, all of the 
violets and purples, and bluish-red and 
yellow, all of the reds and oranges. All 
three in combination in different propor- 
tions render the browns, the olives and 
those colors that we refer to as "greys. 
The negatives will of course in them- 



re^rd^T th? C ° lo \ but -ch will bc a 
one of /J ^ am0Un J of that Particular 
subject. * he tW C ° lors P'^t * the 

It is sometimes difficult for the begin- 
ner to understand why color separatSn 
negatives are not printed eac^Yn ™ 
same color asthe filter through which 
it was exposed, and why, in fact, they 
coIom printed in exactl y opposite 

First, let it be clearly understood that 
the finished color print is built up, so to 
speak, of three positive images super- 
imposed, one on top of the other. Each 
of these images is in a different color 
and each is a reproduction of the amount 
of that color which showed in the orig- 
inal subject. Now let us remember that 
the light which hits the filter in front of 
the lens is divided into two parts, one 
part being absorbed by the filter and the 
other passing through the lens to the 
plate. Let us call for the moment these 
two parts "absorbed color" and "trans- 
mitted color." It is "transmitted color" 
which reaches the plate and causes the 
negative image, afterwards developed. 
It is obvious that a positive print made 
from this negative would reproduce the 
subiect in light and shade exactly ac- 
cording to the amount of "absorbed 
color" in the subject. This then, is the 
color in which the negative must be 
printed. Therefore, the negative must 
bT printed in the color complementary 
to the filter. 



HOW TO TURN YOUR PRINTS INTO 
REAL MONEY 



Photography is one of the most fascinating pastimes one can indulge in, but 
sometimes it is a little more expensive than one's pocket-book can afford. For the 
»nefit of our readers, we have included a list of companies that will buy your prints, 
"{the subjects are interesting. The author knows many amateurs earning their 
"velihood by this means. 



AMES OF FIRMS WHO ARE CONSTANT BUYERS OF PHOTOS 



' merican Agriculturist 
500 Fifth Avenue 
New York City 

merican Boy, The 
Detroit, Mich. 

merican Exporter 
New York City 

lerican Golfer 
New York City 

American Press Association 
New York City 

Lpparel Gazette 

811 East 4th Street 
Los Angeles, Cal. 

rchitectural Record 
119 West 40th Street 
New York City 

Automobile Topics 
1790 Broadway 
New York City 

Baltimore and Ohio Employers' 
Magazine 

Baltimore, Md. 
JIanchard, Harry P. 
65 Hudson Street 

South Glens Falls, N. Y. 
Joy's World, The 
Elgin, 111. 

3rown & Blgelow 

St. Paul, Minn. 
Campbell Art Co. 

Elizabeth, N. J. 
Collier's 

250 Park Avenue 
New York City 
Country Life in America 
Doubled ay, Page & Co. 
Garden City, L. I., N. Y, 
Drysdale Co., The 
209 S. State Street 
Chicago, 111. 
Eastman Kodak Co. 
Rochester, N. y. 

Farm Journal 

Washington Square 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



Buys prints of live stock, farm homes, and agricultural 
subjects. Size, 5x7 ; 0x8. Price paid, 50 cents to $2 
per print. 

Prints of any subjects interesting to boys. Size imma- 
terial. $1 to $3 per print. 

Harbors, shipping interests, wharves, vessels, packing 
and shipping methods, systematic business methods. 

Prints of golfing subjects. Size immaterial. Payment 
varies. 

News and feature photographs. 

News items and photos of interest to the trade. 



Prints of architectural subjects — exteriors, interiors, 
bits of detail, etc. Size 8x10. $1.50 to §8. 

Garage methods and plans of equipment of interest to 
dealers. 

Photographs pertaining to railroading, tracks, engineer- 
ing work, repairs. 

Negatives, Pictures to be used for magazine covers. 
Farm subjects. 4x5, larger size preferred; glossy paper. 
Pay according to value of photograph. 
Wants pictures of subjects for general interest to boys 
between 10 and lfl years of age; pictures of children 
in action. 

Photographic subjects for art calendars, celluloid novel- 
ties, and cloth and leather specialties. 
Prints of new and pleasing subjects for art reproductions 
and pictorial advertising. 

Prints, unmounted Velox. Current events. 3*4x5^, or 
smaller if clear and sharp. $3 to $5. 

Prints must be on glossy papers, not too contrast?. 
Pertaining to country life. 6%x8^. 51 to $10. 

Publishers of Things Artistic. Photographs and origin 0 -' 
designs. 

Annual advertising competition $3000 cash prizes for 
photographs for advertising purposes. See photograph 
papers for announcements. 



Farm and household pictures. 



842 



CONSTANT BUYERS OF PHOTOS 



Tb«Jf h publishing Co. 
W^F-ist 10th Street 
55 s f1>aul, Minn. 
, a Schwing Division 

u^nt Magazine 
Gr Srth°AmKn Building 
Chicago, HI. 

rri t publishing Co. 
^[uiamsport, Pa. 

Hannah. Henry King 

House Beautiful, The 
H °8 Arlington Street 
Boston, Mass. 

Ladies Home Journal 
(Art Department) 
Philadelphia, Fa. 



Life Magazine 

(Art Department; 
Rockefeller Center 
New York City 

Majestic Publishing Co. 

316 Newton-CIaypool Building 
Indianapolis, Ind. 

Metropolitan Magazine 
22 West 48th Street 
New York City 

Modern Priscilla 
Boston, Mass. 



Motoi 

572 Madison Avenue 
New York City 

Motor Boat 

S3 Beekman Street 
New York City 

Musician, The 

Oliver Ditson Co., Publisher 
US West 5Tth Street 
New York City 

National Sportsman Magazine 

Boston, Mass. 
Oakley, p. Benson 

Box 102 

Norwich, N. Y. 
Outlook 

New York City 

P ° P ^l a l, Mechanics Magazine 
0 Ontario Street 
Chicago, IU. 

Wagon 
Lhi cago, hi, 

Magaziae 
fl ew York City 

Sh-out, e. a 

255 Fourth Avenue 
New York City 



843 

l^lTslT^'^S^l conditions in North- 
northwestern farmers 8xio. |2 and ul^™ acenes to 

returned with letS^lptSg S^ffSpSS* 
Shoolhig, fishing and general outdoor subjects Anv 
varies 8126 mUSt be muItiple of ^ Payintt 

^B^SSS?" ° f Pe ° ple and in non- 

News photographs. Prints of human figure in central 
point of interest; one or two figures. 5x7 or 6x8. 50 
cents and up on copyrighted photographs, 
Write regarding pictures he wants. 



News Photographs. 

Prints of attractive small houses and gardens. Any size; 
cannot use any on a smaller base line than 4 inches. 
?1 to $5. 

Always willing to consider photographs submitted to 
the editors for approval, and, if available for use in 
the Ladies Home Journal, will purchase at prices which 
vary according to the subject, the reputation of the 
photographer, etc. 

Prints of news value. Any size unmounted. 
Original designs and texts for postcards. 

~v.,-r.iT, .1 nn.ttp.rns in dif- 

Buys prints 
ferent kind 
illustrating 
ment varies. 

News items, automobile industry. 

._ w hich motor-boats are 

MM. 50 cents per print, 
nuting Photographs. 8 

totinn (treat disasters, 
. n f nnsual events, aviation, g« 
Photographs of unsnw 

flreSl floods, etc. portrait*, 
■entiflc photographs, etc 

gr sens- «-s^ 

prints preferably B auto mobiles and 

the print. un usual uses of autom 

Motor trips, new ana descriptive 
trucks. , mu stratIons of ajfS^pald varies. 



REFERENCE DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 

AND THEIR USES 



Acetic Acid. — A volatile liquid, having a strong odor of vinegar. When con- 
centrated (glacial) is corrosive. It is a solvent for gelatin, celluloid, and pyroxy- 
line, and when used as a constituent of photographic baths, must therefore be present 
only in a very small proportion. Usually as a 28 per cent solution. This is made from 
glacial acid by mixing three parts of acid with eight parts of water. Used to acidify 
fixing and toning baths. Keep in a glass stoppered bottle. 

Acetone. — A colorless inflammable liquid, has an odor of ether. It is soluble 
In all proportions in water, alcohol, and ether. It is an excellent solvent for fats 
resins, and celluloid. Used in conjunction with amyl acetate to make negative 
varnishes. A solution of collodion in acetone used as a varnish gives a matte surface. 

Albumen. — The dried white of eggs. An exceedingly complex organic com- 
pound of carbon and hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur. Swells in cold water 
and dissolves to form a thick solution. It is used in the preparation of albumenized 
paper as a substratum in process work and for sensitizing zinc plates in photo 
etching. 

Alums, Potassium, Potassium Chrome, and Ammonium. — All soluble in cold 
and hot water. Used in fixing baths as a hardener and clearer to prevent stains. 
Chrome alum is the most efficient. Also used in some toners. 

Amidol. — One of a group of isomeric compounds, five of which are developers. 
Supplied as a powder, varying in color from white to dark grey. Keeps well in 
owder form if kept dry, but in solution deteriorates rapidly. Never mix more 
than is to be used at once as it quickly turns to a dark brown liquid which stains 
the hands and prints. Gives nice blaek tones when used as a developer. Used in 
tropical developers. 

Ammonia. — A water-like liquid of pungent smell. Used in emulsion making, 
and in pyro developer for making warm toned lantern slides. Used in the fixing 
bath for platinum printing. Also very good for stripping the emulsion from old 
Tates and films. 

Ammonium Bichromate. — Orange red crystals, similar to potassium bichromate. 
Used in making halftones on zinc and copper as a sensitizer for albumen or fish glue. 

Ammonium Bromide. — Coarse white powder or crystals, very soluble. Used 
as restramer in developers and as an ingredient in bromide emulsions. 

Ammonium Carbonate. — Comes in white lumps that are soluble in water. Used 
ui pyro and other developers for making warmer tones. Should not be dissolved in 
hot water. 

Ammonium Chloride.— This is sal ammoniac, a white crystalline powder, very 
soluble and somewhat hygroscopic. Used in preparing chloride emulsions, salting 
printing papers, and with bichloride of mercury for making bleaching baths. Used 
in fixing and toning baths for chloride papers. 

TJ^a^^ 011 " 1 ? 1 Citrate— Needle crystals, deliquescent, soluble in water and alcohol. 
r»M™ t? r P st , ramer in Py ro developer, and as a developer for chloride emulsion 
Ltw« m blue P rint work - A 10 P er cent solution makes a good clearing 

oatft tor a pyro stained negative. 

and A 5]JI? lon ™ 1 » Iodide.— White crystalline salt. Hygroscopic, very soluble in water 
Thei-Ii. u "™ le - Used for speeding up emulsions and making iodized collodion, 
mere is a slight use as a salting solution for papers. 

844 



eggs 



DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 845 

ntiium Nitrate.— Transparent white crystals, very soluble in water. Used 
AB l^Hme magnesium flash powders, as it gives less smoke. Retards the action 
- theo 1Q ' develo pers. Used in the gum etch in the bromoil lithography process. 

nnium Oxalate— Colorless crystals, soluble in water, used to Teplace 
^ m oxalate in ferrous oxalate developer. Sometimes used in preparing plati- 

Cn papers- 

nnium persulphate —White crystalline powder, soluble in water, uncer- 
• action if impure. Used as a flattening reducer to give less contrast for 
1 in o it reduces the denser portions without effecting the shadow details, 
negatives, as 

■ im Phosphate — Soluble in water. Used for fireproofing fabrics and 
00 d Am U 1 sed U al?o in emulsion making and toning. 

* m Sulphide. — Colorless liquid. Has the odor characteristic of rotten 
Arnn^nm ^ gl £iphide process of toning and for mercurial intensification. 

Qnlnhocvanide. — Colorless, clear crystals, very soluble in water, so 
Ammonium ^P^JJt be k t in an airt i g ht bottle. Used in gold toning and 

ffSoping 1 over-e^osed prints. 

PnlnTless oilvliauid smells like bananas, hence nickname "banana 
-.^M^^ffl&llnc. Uaed in cold varnishes and as medium 
for mixing bronze powders. 

- . a WaC k gassy substance with a tarry odor, soluble in benzole and 

Asphaltum.-A ^^.^ and ig used in photo-mechanical processes and as 

Sketching zinc and copper plates. _ 

•j rv.™<= alqo as barium chloride and barium iodide, all 

Specially the bromide which gives greater contrast. . 

, , n n a "Mountain Snow." Poisonous. Used in making urn. 

Be L e ._Mnst not be — " 5 
resins, rubber, etc., and for cleaning purposes. 



waxes 



a,, resms, ruDDer, eu.., — — ^ , preserver In emulsions 

Benzoic Add.-White crystalline needles. Used as a preserve 
and in toning baths. mixture of caJ 

Bleaching Powder.-Commereial term for ^° jf t ^xS hypo from print 
dJt&Slte and other <ff» «jgJ'^ rt h2^S prints- Very solnb.e I 
and as a good clearing agent tor stameu i»e 

water. alkali in fin 

Borax.-Sodinm borate. Used in **£gg2g* Ac* L" restrainer wi 
pain developers, and in developers for plotmnm p v 
some developers. aouHe cadmium an 

Cndminm Brondde.-White crystals, -Inhle m water, 
ammonium salt. Used in collodion emulsions. ma terials in trop 

4- *n storing sensitive 
, Calcium Chloride-Used « » &sicc *„ 0I se pia toning, 
cal climates, and also in the sulphide process ox v _ hea ting sugar over a 

v ct . nf . e obtained, uy 
. Cai^el.^olden brown, gummy substance 

fi «. Used as a non-halation backing for pia« - Volatily po^on 

. 0** Acid.-Colorlcss needle crystal, ? monntn* 

^ and will burn skin. Used as powerful P 

Pastes, and gelatine solutions. 6yrup glj ^g^U 

„ + Canada Balsam.-Clear yellow or green^ J {of gating 
I a ter but soluble in alcohol. Used for ^^gatives. 
making photoprints transparent for use 



846 DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 

Caustic Potash, Potassium Hydroxide.— White sticks, soapy to the tench solu- 
ble in water powerful alkali that neutralizes acids. Used as an accelerator i n 
develoners and for setting warm tone lantern slides and plates. Must he used weak 
or it will frill the emulsions. Used with warm or hot water for stripping negatives 
or old plates. 

Caustic Soda, Sodium Hydroxide.— Comes in white stick like the potash and 
fe similar in action and has about the same strength in solution. 

Cellulose— A material from which paper, pyroxyline, celluloid, and the flexible 
transparent films are made. All motion picture films and professional films are 
made from cellulose. It is a natural constituent of all fibers and woody plant stems. 

French Chalk— A very fine white or greyish powder used for polishing glass 
surfaces, upon which photographic prints are to be squeegeed for glazing. 

Citric Acid. — Clear crystals or powder, unstable in solution with water, decom- 
posing in contact with air into acetic and carbonic acid. Used as the acid constitu- 
ent of clearing or acid fixing baths, and as a preservative for developers and 
emulsions. Can be substituted for acetic acid in some formulas. 

Chloroform (Trichloromethane). — A colorless heavy mobile liquid, only slighty 
soluble in water, entirely soluble in alcohol. Dissolves fats and resins, and is used 
for making encaustic pastes for photoprints. 

Chrome Alum —See Alums. 

Copper Chloride. — Green-blue crystals, poisonous. Used in negative reduc- 
tion, and also in emulsions for contrast. Also used in toners and carbon sensitizers. 

Copper Sulphate (Bine Vitriol). — Comes in large blue crystals or greenish 
white powder. Poisonous. Used for toning and bleaching, and for intensification 
in process printing. 

Sensitizing Dyes. — These dyes are used to increase the emulsion's sensitivity to 
different colors of light. The use of these dyes determines the amount of ortho- 
chromatism or panchromatism of the emulsion. The commonest are: Eosin, ery- 
throsine, cyanin^ diocyanin, ethyl red, rose bengal rhodamine, pincyanol, and 
pinachrome. 

Ferric Ammonium Citrate. — A light sensitive salt. Comes in brown pearl crys- 
tals or in the form of green scales. The latter is more sensitive to light and is 
preferable for photographic use. Deliquescent, 

Ferric Chloride. (Iron Perchloridc), — Yellow red opaque mass or lumps. De- 
liquescent. Used to reduce overexposed negatives, in blue and green toning baths, 
and for etching copper plates in photo -en graving. 

Ferric Oxalate (Iron Sesquioxalate) . — Comes either in dark greenish scales or 
m brown crystals. Extremely light sensitive. The manufacture of this chemical is 
difficult and it has been practically withdrawn from the chemical catalogues. It is 
very unstable, and will not keep under any conditions. Was used in old time 
methods of photography but has been displaced by silver bromide and chloride. It 
is soluble in water. 

reducer*^ Sulphate ~ Emerald £ reen Crystals. Soluble in water. Used as a 

Ferrous Ammonium Sulphate.— Clear green crvstals. More stable than ferrous 
sulphate and lias displaced it in many uses. Used in ferrous oxalate developer. 

Formaliru— (40 per cent solution of Pormaldehvde). Poison. Bad for throat 
ana eyes. Has a very strong tanning action on gelatin and is much used in hard- 
eners, especially for tropical developers. 

Gallic Acid.— Yellowish brown crystals. Used as a developer with tannic acid 
in ferro-gahic process to obtain strong blacks and also in photo-litho graphic 
processes, 1 



DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 847 

• „ A complex colloid compound. Comes in sheets, threads, or in granu- 

(jelatin^- thg baC kbone of all photographic emulsions as it is used to carry 
lar f orn1, c „ii, in suspension. Without gelatine, photography would be retarded 
the *f JJtaiy to approximately 1840. 

fl IrnOS ^ /^listening white powder. Slightly soluble in water. Used with sodium 
^solutions' is non-staining and is used in tank developers. 

. Heavy odorless clear liquid. Used as a preserver in pyro devel- 

Glycenne. restra j ner j n ferrous oxalate developer. Keeps films from becoming 
opers and as p reve nts too rapid drying and is used in formalin hardening baths 

dr C^nt r cracking the films. 

t° P . . Made by dissolving metallic gold in nitric acid and evaporating 

Gold Cn ion ^ wa ter. Used in gold toning of prints giving many various and 
(be acid. o° lu TanK i n{ r from purple through red to intense black. Comes in IB 
beautiful t ^ n , eS , %he entire 15 grains should be dissolved at once and made into a 
<s£n Keep away from strong light. 

stoc . __ T i-,j s } S sometimes added to bromide emulsions to give wide latitude 

f JXRthout danger of reversal of image. 

, t,i^V Arid (Muriatic Acid) .—Colorless fuming liquid that is very poi- 
Hyd rocblonc . Co ns ist of 37 per cent hydrochloric acid dissolved in water. 
Used to a add C S r emulslons for gathering speed and in toning baths to acidity. 

86 a . * -j_A fuming liquid, extremely corrosive and very dangerous 

Hydroflouric AciA-A ■ ' and sWd be store d in lead, rubber,. or 

t0 ^ftiJrm^Tl smcates. Used for dissolving glass in some stripping 
waxed vessels. iJ^uve ^ 

processes and m ettoeg hould b 

Jffi^" F " L itS aCti °" " a deVel ° Pm& ^ 

ceases at 40° F. Gives extreme contrast tMosu l P hate thoug 

Hvna (Sodium Thiosulphate) — This sal V? n & S^e C S crystals, known as pe 
popSy°calIed sodium ^TB^f^**^ ^sseuUal use 3 as' a fixing agen 
Crystals, and also as a granulated white P°™r. * 1Q0 ts of a 20 per cm 

depends upon its solvent action on unredu ced sd ^^J;^ This solution ha 
solution being able to dissolve .^^^forttto reason prolonged immemo 
a slight power of attacking metallic silver . ™ 

of negatives or prints may lead to a sngm process wot 

Iodide (PoLium Iodide).^Used m wet ^S^^^^Xt 
cutting lines on half tone negatives, and used in hhot ^ Wlth bichloride o 

Must he dissolved in water before iodine will dissolve 

mercury to tone pictures orange color. fo dissolve in plain 

Iodine.-Blue gray scales, P$3£. ^ as a bleach and reducer 

crater hut dissolves easily in a solution ot ioai ^ Qn ^ Hands . 
and to remove silver stains from the hands, o _ ^ very poiso nous. 

T Lead Acetate.-Coarse white crystals j f ^n kin ds of papers. 
Used in combined toning and fixing baths, ior ^ foj- ^ powex to 

I Lead Nitrate.-Small white crystals, soluble m wa . 

give great contrast in process line work. ^ ^ flas Might powder an« 

Manganese Dioxide.-Heavy black powder. • " 
i as a raw material from which to prepare oxyg colorleSS pr ismatic crystals, soiu 

H Magnesium Sulphate (Epsom Sal ^;^S? ° Used 
1 . in water. Used in developers as a hardener goluble in water, use* 

I R0 Me ^c Chloride (Bichloride) .-Extremely pois Tnnerat ure S . 

I as a bleach and as an mtensifier. n or dinary te J° P f n a ica tor 

1 w . . i .-■ \ c 11verr metal, liqi»J at an gave &s an , nd ic 

;| . „, Mercury (Quicksilver). — Silvery ^ jj aS little v 

'I I k^^uricWide with hydrochloric acid. 



S DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 



Metol.— A trade name for an ordinary developing agent. Also known or sold 
under the name of: Pictol, Elon, Rodol, Satrapol, etc. Comes in fine white needle 
crystals, soluble in water. Nearly always used in conjunction with hydroquinone 
as a developer. 

Nitric Acid. — A heavy, yellow, or colorless liquid, mixes in water, very corrosive 
extremely poisonous, used as a preservative for hypo in silver baths for wet collo- 
dion, and for etching zinc plates in the photomechanical processes. 

Oxalic Acid. — Colorless and odorless crystals soluble in water, extremely poi- 
sonous. Used as a preservative in- pyro solutions, and in platinum process. Very 
efficient stain remover, but is not used much because of the necessity of a thorough 
washing to remove the acid, Precipitates metallic gold from, solutions containing 
gold salts. 

Paramidophenol. — The base from which several developing agents are made. 
Chief among these being metol (elon, pictol, rhodol, satrapol). 

Phosphoric Acid. — A colorless thin syrupy liquid. Mixes freely with water, 
used for platinum solutions and also gold solutions to acidify. Used also in making 
zinc line and half-tone cuts. 

Pinacryptol. — Green, or yellow dye compounds that have the power to render 
a silver emulsion comparatively insensible to light without destroying the latent 
image. Used as a desenitizer for films enabling them to be developed in an orange 
light. More efficient than phenosafranine, odorless, and does not stain. 

Potassium Cyanide. — White amorphous cakes, very deliquescent, extremely 
poisonous, and dangerous to handle. Soluble in water, slightly so hi alcohol. Used 
in the last century as a fixer, but now hypo has displaced it for this purpose and is 
not so dangerous to the user. 

Potassium Ferricyanide (Red prussiate). — Bright red crystals, soluble in water, 
Poisonous. Widely used in bleachers, especially for the sulphide process of sepiaing, 
and also in blue prints, and blue toning baths. 

Potassium Ferrocyanide (Yellow Prussiate) —Yellow crystals, soluble in water, 
very poisonous. Must not be confused with the ferricyanide. Used in some toning 
baths. 

Potassium Ferrous Oxalate. — The active developing agent in iron development 

Potassium Iodide— Small colorless crystals, VS. in water; SS. alcohol and 
•Awi' . es: emu l sion making, reducing fog and increasing contrast; in mercuric- 
iodide intensifies; wet collodion process, and to prevent abrasion marks in gaslight 
paper development. fo 

e i K? 0l ^ SsiU i m Metab i sul Phite.— Transparent needle crystals or crystalline powder, 
soiuDle in cold water. An acid salt used in preparing add fixing baths, and as a 
qSnone 6 ^ P ° f Sodium sul P hite witl * developers especially pyro and hydro- 

nl . t ; Potass ^ m . Nitrate.— Prismatic transparent crvstals. VS. in water. Uses: in 
flash i powders ^ * Preparation of pyroxyline "and as an energetic oxidizer in 

Poison^ 38 ™ ° xalate ~ Used in ferrous oxalate developer and platinotype process. 

SoluWe^ 8 ^ Per «ianganate.— Purple black needle crystals of metallic lustre, 
C aa T,™^ f^P h Ypc and acetic acids, alcohol. Powerful oxidizing agent 
mover and hi, £ ^nsifier neutral solution); reducer (acid solution); stain re- 
test for hypo m redevel °P ment and reversal processes; hypo eliminator and 

»tafn ( ?Su?^TSm W " f- dd dye known as cine y elI °^' saic * to remove the pink 
Tesuitm S from mordanting with rhodamin B in making color transparencies. 



DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 849 



con- 



— Light-sensitive. A condensation product of furfurol, acetone and „ 
ReS ^ n ?ndium hydroxide, diluted with benzole, gives a solution or synthetic resin 
cen tratcd s lub Qj z ed by light action, which is employed in photomechanical 

rocesses white prismatic crystals, "VS. in water. Used in emulsion making. 

, Trade name of a concentrated solution of para-amidophenol chloro- 

Rodinai. diluted with water, a serviceable developer for plates, films and 

hydrate g^ na f" (powder form), citol, paranol, and activol are similar preparations, 
papers- — White needle-like crystals or powder; slightly soluble in cold 
y S in hot water, alcohol. Use : preservative in emulsions and mountants. 
' atCr ' —A white, comparatively soft metal; forms " 



^ white, comparatively soil merai; iorms a large variety of light- 
s-salts employed as the bases of the sensitive material used ™ 



itive salts empioyeu ^ m«« ««, - — — — — — - in photography. 

„ -„ -Jtratf — Colorless needles. Very soluble in water and alcohol. 

Ipe,^^ -^^* Plain papeTS * 



TTw in emulsions anu m^-— 6 r 

- ' _, .j a light-yellowish powder, insoluble in water, alcohol, soluble 

Silver f T ° f™* mm bromide, cyanide, alkaline ' 'hypo sulphites." Alone or with 
^ ?° and chloride it forms the sensitive salt in modern emulsions. 

i0dl «., an fnrKnn^fe A yellowish granular powder; insoluble in water, alcohol; 

B0 lubK^otos?uS cyanide, ammonia and sodium hyposulphite. Used m emulsion 

making. insoluble in water, alcohol; soluble in ammonia, "hyposul- 

rJL ?T^3^ salt used in p.o.p. and d.o.p. emulsions. 

o'i nLte-A red, amorphous powder soluble in ammonia and sodium 
-^SiU^SS in p.o.p. emulsions to add contrast. 

hyposulphite. i r ammoma , potassium cyanide an 

Silver Citratei-White V^*™™*^^ cMorid/d.o.p. emulsions. 

alcohol, soluble in potassium cyanide, iodide, cnionue, 

lodion process and preparing gelatin emulsions. ^ 
Silver Nitrate.-Poison Colorless flat ^''^tSdng; h— 

most important of silver salts used m ptjtogg 1 ^ acid . 

tUm, etc. In process work for etching steel w ammon ia, organic aci 

Silver Phosphate-Heavy yell ow powd jr, . <^ ionS to secure a long sea 

and hypo. Used in print-out and chloride d.o.p. e 

of gradation. . , H( , m wa ter, alcohol a 

Silver Sulphide.-A brownish-blach <<»^J^* ftf**^* 
ammonia, but soluble with decomposition in mmc ^Sn-bron 
hrown or sepia image of sulphide-toned e D f speed in gelation pro 

elver halide grain is said to be the predominant ca 

CmXllSi0nS ' ,„ ve rv soluble in water, soluble in 

Silver Tartrate. — A fine, white P<f^ r , J Emulsions, 
aonia and nitric acid. Use: in making prinxou r> Uscd 

j„ -very soiuiwc 
Sodium Biscarbonate.-Fine, ^hite powder, 
gold toning baths. . de liquescent very boIud 

• Sodium Bichromate^ed, crys^J^^ Jtoa ^ 
heater. Use: replaces potassium and amnion 

Sodium R 0 rate.-(See Borax). aTe sold 

mi? ilma Carbonate-Three *orj* °* J ° coaTEe white P°^i opnl ent. 
gj?luc use, comes in clear, glassy crystals o used an ae 

Wat «> glycerine. The principal alkali or accei 



850 DICTIONARY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS 



1 



Sodium Hyphosulphite — (See Hypo). 

Sodium Nitrite. — Not to be confused with sodium nitrate. White opaque sticks 
or colorless crystals.* Very soluble in water, slightly soluble in alcohol. Use: in pre _ 
paring photometer test papers and the diazotype process. 

" Sodium Oxalate— White crystalline powder. Poisonous. Slightly soluble in 
ater. Use: in platinotype process. 

Sodium Silicate—Synthetic soda water glass. White or bluish gray lumps, or 
syrupy yellow liquid. Use: in colotypy, as a substratum. 

Sodium Sulphite— Transparent white crystals or powder; efflorescent, keep in 
ell stoppered bottles, very soluble in water, slightly soluble in alcohol. Use: pre- 
ervative in developing solutions; active energizer in amidol development; in fixing 
aths; blackener in negative intensification. 

Sodium Tratrate. — White crystals, soluble in water. Use: in p.o.p. emulsions. 

Starch. — White amorphous powder which by boiling with water gives a semi- 
ansparent paste. Use: sizing photographic papers and in mountants. 

Strontium Bromide. — Strontium chloride, strontium iodide, soluble in water, 

Strontium Bromide. — Strontium chloride, strontium iodide. Soluble in water, 
cohol. Use: in collodion and gelatine-chloride emulsions to increase contrast. 

Sulphuric Acid. — A heavy, oily colorless liquid. Poison and very corrosive, 
"iscible in all proportions with water (add the acid in small quantities to the water, 
ever add water to acid). Use: preservative of pyro solutions; in acid fixing baths 
nd bleaching solutions. 

Sulphurous Acid. — A 6 per cent aqueous solution of the gas SO, sulphurous 
nhydride. Suffocating, irritating odor and fumes. Unstable in solution. Use: 
reservative in developers, pyro, etc. and acidifier of fixing baths. 

Tannin.— Not a true acid. Lustrous, yellow amorphous powder; very soluble 
n water, alcohol. Use: dry collodion process, and in etching solution in collotvpe 
rocess. 

Tartaric Acid— Colorless, transparent crystals, soluble in water, alcohol. Use: 
s preservative for sensitized paper and in emulsions. 

Thiocarbamide. — White prismatic crystals, very soluble in alcohol, soluble in 
ater._ Uses: gives color in lantern slides by development; removes dichroic fog and 
tarns in negatives: with eikonogen tends to reversal of negative. 

Uranium Chloride.— Poisonous. Deliquescent greenish-yellow plates, soluble in 
ontrast SensitizeT for P lain P a pers, and chloride emulsions to increase 

l^Tyf^ 11111 ^ 0 ^ 101 * 1 ? 6 -^ 130380110118 - Dar k-green, syrupy mass. Soluble in water, 
iconol, Use: tonmg bromide prints green: various dye processes. 

mulSo t n C s~ The SaUS ° f ^ bromide ' c M°ride and iodide are used in collodion 

obit?™ 0 ^^ 0 ^^ of~ According to a U.S. patent (1627) the addition of a 

ecoverW J?v P0SU P ? lte ° f Zin ° t0 ° ld fixin £ solutions offers a .simple method of 
ecovenng silver wastes or residues. 

apbs^for^ ingredient in white pigments used in retouching photo- 



PLASTICS 



851 



PLASTICS 

. maV be defined as materials 
plastics may d by s of ap 

thick ™%* e Into desired shapes and 
pile* P^temperatures at which these 
: or ms. J* th u S formed may vary m 
materials *J e " eBseS and with different 
tbe different pr we have tw0 gen- 

comP 0 ? 1 ^" 5 ;j plaS tie Sj namely r cold- 
era l classes ° ^ ldcd de pendent on 

^ d & d ie wMch is used to form the 
whether tw m jg kept at room tem- 
P la f^r wSher it P goes through a 
P er , at f Wtaff and moling, or heated to 
finite temperature. Some of the 
fl defin 1,vp tife property of hardening 

^uwSedJo^ and pressure and 
when sun whic h can n0 

f 0r Sr be melted? these are termed ther- 
l0ng ?Hne while thermoplastic composi- 
m0Se ttl Ke usually formed during a 
ti0 tl ftoaSg^nd cooling do not be- 
07 ?nfSle and may be subsequently 
S ol r formed on Ihe application of 
S Cold-molded compositions cured 
Ev heat on removal from the dies are 
Sore heat-resistant. The process of 
factoring plastic «jmP«J^» J« 
many and varied. Generally plastics are 
3 up of two components, a filler and 
^binder. The binder has the property 
of cementing together the filler which 
consists of the bulk of the composition, 
Lovers the price and in many cases ren- 
ders the composition harder, tougher, 
more elastic or stronger. Materials usea 
as hinders consist of a large variety 01 
inorganic and organic substances such as 
cements, bituminous products, resins 
both natural and synthetic, gums, cellu- 
lose esters and ethers, proteinous com- 
pounds with or without such substances 

nD „, r, nJ,mr,|-C Til a Ctl C\7.e,TS 



wnn or wiujuul suui , 

as oils, waxes, solvents, plasticizers ana 
lubricants to give the desired properties 
of elasticity, toughness, strength and 
heat resistance as may be demanded by 
the particular plastic which is com- 
pounded and also to improve the mold- 
ing process. Among tbe fillers arejsuch 
substances as cotton flock, wood flour, 
asbestos fibre, clay, silica, mica and 
other mineral fillers together with pig- 
ments to give the mass the desired color. 

A composition suitable for plastic 
molding must be so compounded that an 
ultimate and homogeneous mixture of the 
ffl ter and binder is obtained. To this 
end various types of machines are used, 
^ as Wading and dough mixing ma- 
chines, rubber rolls, powder mixers to 
JJ e <* the thorough conglomeration ot 
tne binder and filler which Is obtained 



either in the form of a powder or sheets 
or cake form. These are usually ground 
in suitable grinders or disintegrators and 
screened to obtain graded powders or 
else cut up in small preforms to be fed 
to the die. In many eases the powder ia 
fed to a preforming press which gives 
off simple geometrical forms which may 
after be used to feed in the die to obtain 
the final article. 

Plastics are usually subdivided into 
classes with reference to the nature of 
the binder employed: — 

Compositions from Proteins, — Pro- 
teinous compounds such as blood albu- 
men, gelatin, glue, casein, beer yeast, 
sea weeds and egg albumen are used 
quite frequently in the compositions to 
act as binders for sawdust, asbestos, talc, 
chalk and vegetable fibres. These com- 
positions in many cases are hardened by 
immersing in a formaldehyde bath and 
then drying. 

I.— 25 parts of sawdust are mixed with 
150 parts of chalk and to it added 45 
parts of gelatin and 10 parts of glue 
previously dissolved in water; the ma- 
terial is mixed in water and molded. 
Colors may be added, 

TI— A composition from blood albu- 
men' may he made by dissolving 100 
narts of dessicated blood albumen in 
?£SoC i parte of water, 5% parts of am 
mounimVdroxide spe^*^^ 
and 15 parts Vf^J^^* 

£ JESTS ffieepm 

thicken hut on ^ 
pressed to a cold to. „ 
* e ^ af \ e ?LZ in 90 par 



maj 



oe made by F^*^ of 
parts of casein n™J 2 arts of hm 
Uicb has been added A V the d< 
to the casein scutum w ith the ar* 
£red filler in a ccord ance wi flour 
des being produced, cork wder 
marble dust, *» rtd a w rt P tempe ratui 
tained * ^nd tCmolded object dried 
of 140° F. and the .."! n for doUs or. to: 



part 



- r '- A S m 2 Tpartsglu; 
xnav be made i l°^/^' t3 w hiting. * 
pulp ^^dSedd and ** 
Jnaterial is ^' d Clved in water « 
The glue is first d ^ to ob tain 



PLASTICS 



V. Ernolith is a composition made 

from beer yeast treated with formalde- 
hyde mixed with a filler and pressed in 
a hot mold at 180° F. 

VI. A composition for doll's heads is 

made by dissolving 8 parts of glue and 
1 part gum arabic in 12 parts of water 
at about 200° F. To this is added 12 
parts paper pulp and the mass is stirred 
rapidly. Whiting is then added to give a 
mass dense enough to be molded. The 
objects are then allowed to dry in the air 
and finally at a gentle heat after which 
the surface may be impregnated with 
oil, resins, waxeSj and lacquered. 

Plastic Masses from Bitumens, Oils 
and Resins. — These products are mainly 
used in the manufacture of heat-resistant 
compositions, electrical insulation and 
battery boxes. 

I. — A hard rubber substitute is made 
by melting 35 parts of Trinidad asphalt 
with an equal amount of stearine pitch. 
To this is added 4 parts of powdered 
sulfur and the material is heated for 2 
hours at a temperature of 340° F. to 
vulcanize. 

II. — A composition for electrical in- 
sulation is made by dissolving 2 parts of 
pitch from coal-tar distillation in 1 part 
of heavy coal-tar naphtha and mixing 
with equal parts of asbestos fibres to 
give a plastic powder which is molded 
under pressure into the desired forms 
and afterwards hardened by baking for 
24 hours at 400° F. 

III. — A composition for battery boxes 
may be made by melting 100 parts of 
gilsonite with 10 parts of raontan wax, 
sufficient wood flour and cotton flock 
may be added to give a pasty mass 
which is pressed while hot in cold dies 
to give the desired article. 

^Y'^A- composition suitable for cold- 
molding may be made by mixing 10 
Parts of linseed oil with 10 parts of pe- 
troleum asphalt, 6 parts rosin and 74 
parts filler such as fine asbestos fibres 
lne materials are mixed in a kneading 
machine to give a powdery conglomerate 
which is afterwards pressed in a closed 

»Z JE* I , Vjr P ress ure. The articles 
are then baked to harden. 

n»y+T A ■ mixturc of 6 parts pitch, 3 
parts rosin 1 part castor oil and % part 
day is used to seal bottles. 

t^TJ'""^ 11 ex , cell ent mass is obtained by 
meltmg together 40 parts pitch, 2 parts 

SSl shellac > 10 Parts carbon 

Mack and 30 parts ochre. The mass is 



powdered by mixing in a powder mixer 
The whole is melted at 250-260° p. an j 
while hot pressed into desired shar>e in 
cold die. 1 m a 

Plastic Masses From Synthetic Res 
ins. — Phenolic-formaldehyde Condensa- 
tion products may be made by reacting i 
molecular weight of phenol with I txioIq. 
eular weight of formaldehyde in the 
presence of a catalyst. Such a resin mav 
be prepared by mixing 50 parts of phenol 
with 30-60 parts of 40 per cent formalde- 
hyde and adding 2-8 parts of ammonia 
water 15 per cent strength. The ma- 
terial is gently heated with steam in a 
jacketed kettle until a solid is obtained 
which is very friable and still fusible. 
The resin is then poured oif in shallow 
trays and continued heating in an oven 
preferably under vacuum until it no' 
longer fuses but is still elastic when hot. 
At this stage the resin is pulverized and 
incorporated in the various ways with 
wood flour or asbestos and pigments to 
give a powder which after being worked 
on the rolls is ground and then ready for 
molding in a hot die into the required 
shapes. 

Plastics from Inorganic Materials.— 
I. — Sodium silicate (waterglass) may be 
used to bind wood flour or other fillers 
which may then be molded under pres- 
sure to obtain hard objects. 

II. — A composition suitable for mold- 
ing into various shapes may be made by 
mixing 20 parts lime with 40 parts of 
fine silica and 40 parts of asbestos fibres, 
setting into a plastic dry powder which 
may be molded under pressure. The 
mass is then hardened by subjecting to 
the action of steam in an autoclave at 
125 pounds pressure. 

III. — Another formula calls for 50 
parts Portland cement, 20 parts asbestos 
fibres, 10 parts water, 10 parts pigment. 
The materials are thoroughly mixed, 
molded and then coated with a solution 
of gum arabic to give a gloss. 

IV. — Artificial stones may be made by 
mixing Portland cement with asbestos 
fibres and adding vegetable fibres, 

V. - — A magnesia cement composition 
is made by mixing thoroughly 72 parts 
of freshly calcined magnesite with 22 
parts Epsom salt, and 5 parts of lead 
acetate. The whole is mixed dry and 
water added to give a plastic powder 
which may he molded under pressure to 
give the object desired. 



POLISHES 



853 



Jtokobile wax PASTE: 

UT r t °u ta wa X ...-20 pounds 
J Beeswax pounds 

.. _ 7 gallons 

Triethanolamine . . 2% pounds 

ste am-jacketed kettle at 90° C. 
d then add the triethanola- 



B 



In a 

" Add "B" slowly 
I3 e tnen r th! boiling water. Stir rapidly 
Si tile emulsion is formed and then 

dowiy tin cold. 

AUTOMOBILE POLISH AND 

CLEANSER: 

rwater 5 f^f 18 

A ^Triethanolamine . 8 fluidounces 

„ fMineral oil 12 pints 

B \01eic acid 20 fluidounces 

Abrasive — celite 

or tripoli ■ • 1 pound 

Dissolve the triethanolamine in water. 
In another container mix the oil and acid 
and stir well. Add "B» to "A" slowly 
with constant stirring. Then mix m the 
abrasive. 

The above polish and cleanser is ap- 
plied with a piece of clean cheese 
allowed to dry and then 
bright surface. 



cloth, 
rubbed to a 



gallons 
pound 
pound 
gallons 



METAL POLISH: 

T. — Water 16 

Triethanolamine . . : 

Oleic acid 1 

Naphtha 8 

Clay or chalk 5 to 8 pounds 

Strong ammonia . . 1 pint 
Dissolve the triethanolamine in the 
water and then stir in the chalk. In a 
separate container mix to uniformity the 
naphtha, and oleic acid and add it to the 
"Wt mixture. When a smooth emulsion 
Has heen obtained add the ammonia and 
s «r slowly till uniform. 

W— Talc ay s 

Naphtha 2 

Water 2 

Ceresine wax .... 1 
Turpentine 1 



oth 



Stir the talc in the water 
r Vcs sel heat together, avoiding open 



pounds 
gallons 
gallons 
pound 
quart 
and in 



flames, the naphtha, turpentine and wax 
and stir till uniform. To it add the wa- 
ter and talc mixture and stir to uni- 
formity. 

WOOD OR METAL POLISH: 

Mineral oil 60 pounds 

Cotton -seed oil 20 pounds 

Turpentine 10 pounds 

Naphtha 10 pounds 

Celite ... y 2 to 1 ounce per gallon 
The liquid ingredients arc stirred to- 
gether and the celite is then mixed in and 
the whole stirred till uniform. 



Orthodichlorhenzene has been recom- 
mended as a cleaner for metals. This 
material is incorporated with an abrasive 
such as precipitated chalk to form a 
paste and is said to be very effective in 
cleaning silverware, nickel-plated, chro- 
mium-plated and other metal articles. 



FURNITURE POLISH; 

I, — Paraffin oil . 3 quart 

Water ^ ounc 

Banana oil 3 ounces 

Alcohol 16 0UI1 ces 

Color to suit 

The above ingredients are mixed to 
gether, the water being added last. 

(Paste Type).— 

Il-Carnauba wax . ... 10 pounds 

Ceresine wax 10 pounds 

Mineral oil 8 PP* 

T-pentine j g- ns 

Varnolene iC fc a 

Melt the 

the ceresine and the ™° craI t °^ slow i 
the > „f * 

^ofr l "t™|entlne. St* 

S Tn^a r nauba^...l0P^ 

Beeswax g pounds 

Ozokerite pounds 

paraffin wax £ ounds 

Stearic acid . . ■ • ■ • £ oun ds 
Triethanolamine . . gg | allons 

Water . ■ ■ ■ -q gallons 

Naphtha.-.-- ata 
Melt the waxes and .tea 
temperature of 90 ^^amuie, 
eted kettle and add intBinmg a 

Slowly add the ^P hth * d d the boiling 

cleaI S ° l f- aStaJ Songly to form a. 
water and aff> tate ,„ till cool. 



nulsion and then 



4 



POLISHES 



ne following emulsion polish is recom- 
ided by the Bureau of Standards for 
on pyroxylin lacquers or Duco fin- 
s'- 

IV, — Mineral spirits or 

gasoline 44 pounds 

Beeswax 4% pounds 

Carnauba wax . . 4% pounds 
Finely powdered 
diatomaceous 
earth or tripoli 
(at least 325 

mesh) 2 

Neutral soap .... 44 



pounds 
pounds 

gasoline by 



Dissolve the waxes in the 
warming over hot water ; add the abrasive 
to this solution and mix by stirring or 
shaking; dissolve the soap in the water; 
add the soap solution to the gasoline mix- 
ture, and shake thoroughly. The soap 
solution should be just warm enough to 
remain liquid so that the gasoline will not 
boil out of the vessel. Shake well before 
applying. This type of polish should be 
used with care to avoid marring the fin- 
ish by too vigorous rubbing, Polishes 
which contain no abrasives are also in 
use for cellulose ester coatings. The dia- 
tomaceous earth or tripoli may be omit- 
ted from the above formula. 

The following formula is recommended 
by the United States Bureau of Stand- 
ards: 

V. — Cider vinegar .... 12% pounds 
Petroleum spirits. 22% pounds 

Turpentine 13% pounds 

Denatured alcohol. 2% pounds 
Boiled linseed oil . . 10 pounds 
Raw linseed oil. . . 12 pounds 

The above quantities make 10 gallons 
of the polish. It should not be stored in 
metal containers as the metal will be at- 
tacked by the vinegar. 



LEATHER POLISH: 

Water 16 gallons 

bteanc acid 6 pounds 

Iriethanolamine 2 pounds 

Carnauba wax H pounds 

turpentine 2 gallons 

Dye to suit. 

„ J)° + the . Water add the triethanolamine 
and stearic acid and heat to boiling. In 

t„r? a v con 1 tainer melt the wax in the 
turpentine and add the dye. When it is 

tJL fl tempe , rat . Ure of about 900 C. add to 
me tirst solution and stir till cold. 



SHOE POLISH: 

I. — Montan wax 5 pounds 

Caustic soda % pound 

Polish black % pound 

Nigrosine ........ 1 pound 

"Water 5 gallons 

Dissolve the caustic soda in the water 
and add the wax. Heat till the wax is. 
melted and then add the two coloring 
agents. Stir and continue heating until 
a paste-like consistency is obtained. 

II. — Carnauba wax ... 6 pounds 

Montan wax 4 pounds 

Ccresine 7 pounds 

Paraffin wax ... 4 pounds 

Nigrosine 3 pounds 

Turpentine 10 gallons 

Melt the waxes together and then add 
to them slowly the turpentine in which 
has been dissolved the nigrosine. Stir 
till uniform. 



FLOOR POLISH: 

I. — Carnauba wax 4 pounds 

Beeswax 1 pound 

Turpentine 1 gallon 

Naphtha 4 gallons 

Melt the waxes together in a steam- 
jacketed kettle and then add a mixture of 
the two solvents. Heat till the solution is 
clear and stir till cold. 

IT,- — Carnauba wax . . 16 pounds 

Stearic acid .... 1% pounds 

Triethanolamine . I pound 

Turpentine 3 gallons 

Water 7 gallons 

Melt the wax and stearic acid together 
in a steam -jacketed kettle. In a separate 
container dissolve the triethanolamine in 
water and heat almost to boiling, and 
add to it slowly and with constant stir- 
ring the melted wax and stearic acid. 
Then stir into it the turpentine. 

(No-rubbing Type.) — 

III. — Carnauba wax . . 13 pounds 

Oleic acid 1% pounds 

Triethanolamine . 2% pounds 

Borax 1 pound 

Water 20 gallons 

Using a steam-jacketed kettle melt the 
wax and add the oleic acid. Stir and add 
the triethanolamine slowly. Add the 
borax dissolved in about a quart of boil- 
ing water and stir until clear. Then ad« 
slowly %vith constant stirring the. boding 
water. 



EF KIGEBAT0B DEODORISOR— RUST PROOFING 855 



_ RE pELLENT: 
MOTH * benzene is frequently used 
Far adiciiior stal gs a moth repel . 




aoul '* v icUorbenzene 

t» the , P -n a mixer, stirring tlie crystals 
placed in a ddition . Blocks are made 
darinf W the paradichlorobenzene and 
■iy melting i i p er f U me is added to 
asting wto - lten the mixture being 



NA 



pHTHENATE DRIERS: 



of magnesium, cobalt 
Combl w Haphthenic acid give driers 



^ I ™ much superior to the old type 
? hl< * n DrSrs and in addition give a 
S color which produces no change in 
ftodv These new driers are more 
t*Zj standardised and give a pale 

shade. 

NERVE DESENSITIZER: 

p T Hartman's Solution: 

Thymol 1% Parts 

Ethyl alcohol 1 P a ™ 

Sulphuric ether 2 parts 

Keep tightly corked in brown glass 
bottle. One-half ounce enough for 200 



applications. 
Use cork or tin lined stoppers only. 

OVEN CLEANER: 

Carborundum SO parts 

Montan wax 2 parts 

Paraffin 5 parts 

Cottonseed oil IS parts 

"Nujol" 8 parts 

Eed oxide of iron .... 20 parts 

?AINT AND VARNISH 
REMOVER: 

The following is a good paint and 
tarnish remover: 

Acetone 35 parts 

Benzene ,40 parts 

Methyl alcohol ' '. 25 parts 

Wax (refined) 4,% by weight 
. Y ax is dissolved in the benzene, the 
E and alcoh °l is added slowly, stir- 
3 continu onsly. This mixture will 
IsW t he paint or varnish film in a 
I ott ^e, it may then be scraped off. 

REFRIGERATOR DEODORIZER: 

taade^ 15 and eff ective deodorizer is 
(the ton j kin & a pint can, perforating 
Wat rm.- bott °m and filling with gran- 
ge cem \ ated ca *bon. The carbon may 
Very S ed together by mixing with a 
mau Percentage of plaster of Paris 



which will bind the carbon together in a 
cake form. 

Granular activated carbon functions 
as an absorber of odors from food, fruit 
etc. which prevents an undesirable pen- 
etration into other eatables. 

REPAIRING PORCELAIN FIN- 
ISHES FOR PLUMBING FIX- 
TURES, REFRIGERATORS, 
RANGES, ETC.: 

Melt in a suitable container over a 
gas flame some shellac and add to it 
titanium oxide until a uniform white mix- 
ture is obtained. This can be cast into 
rods similar to sealing wax. To repair 
a chip on a porcelain finish warm the 
previously cleaned spot and apply the 
mixture. Level off and smooth with 
sandpaper. Finally, the spot can be 
coated with a porcelain enamel 

RUSTPROOFING OF IRON: 

Parker Process —The Parker method 
is carried out as follows: The articles 
are immersed in a solution which con- 
tains 25 grams of phosphoric acid and 
\y z grams of manganese dioxide per 
litre. Boil for 2 to 4 hours. Rinse in 
warm water, then cold water and dry in 
sawdust. Brush the articles and heat 
until water dropped on is thrown off. 
At this temperature immerse the articles 
in linseed oil, drain and heat to dryness. 

Another process is to boll articles in a 
solution of 150 grams of calcium hydro- 
gen phosphate per litre until they as 
fume the proper color. Rinse and dry in 
sume tne P™P_ articles in heavy 
sawdust, immerse lug , 
oil at 100° F. for one hour. Dram and 

dry. 

SHOE DRESSING, NEUTRAL: 

Carnaubawax J 

Beeswax J ds 

Turpentine 8 pounds 

Naphtha r 

Trietbanolamine ^ dg 

stearate pounds 

Water * , . 

Heat the f S J5?%*££ 
til thoroughly dissolvea an 
til cream. 

SETS'**- 

the following: g ^ 

"Cellosolve" ' " g parts 

Acetone " 3 p8 

pipentene . ■ • •••• g part 

V.M. & P. naphtha .... 
Neatsfoot on 



1 



856 



STAINS — VARNISH 



FROM 



STAINS, REMOVAL OF 
MARBLE; 

(The following has been derived from 
a publication By the Bureau of Stand- 
ards.) 

Tobacco Stains.— An excellent for- 
mula for removing tobacco stains from 
marble is the following: Dissolve 2 
nounds of trisodium phosphate crystals 
| 1 gallon of hot water. Mix 12 ounces 
of chlorinated lime to a paste m an 
enameled pan by adding water slowly 
and stirring. Pour the two solutions 
into a stoneware jar and add water until 
about 2 gallons are obtained. Stir thor- 
oughly, cover the jar and permit the 
lime to settle. Add some of the liquid 
to powdered talc until a thick paste is 
formed and apply a layer % inch thick 
with a trowel. To apply with a brush 
instead, add about one teaspoonful ot 
sugar to each pound of powdered talc. 
If working on polished marble, scrape 
off with a wooden paddle; if dull mar- 
ble, scrape off with a trowel. This mix- 
ture is a strong bleaching agent and 
corrodes metals, hence care must be ex- 
ercised to prevent its dropping on metal 
fixtures or colored fabrics. 

Pire Stains. — The marble may have 
been discolored from smoke or pitch 
from burning wood. Scour the surface 
with powdered pumice to remove any 
surfaee deposit, then make up a solution 
of trisodium phosphate and chlorinated 
lime as outlined under Tobacco Stains. 
Fold a white Canton flannel cloth so as 
to form three or four layers and saturate 
it in the liquid. Paste this on the stain 
and cover with a piece of glass or a 
scrap slab of marble, make sure that the 
cloth is pressed closely against the mar- 
ble. Resaturate the cloth as many times 
as is necessary. 

Iodine Stains. — This stain will disap- 
pear by itself in a few weeks time. 
However if it is desired to remove it 
quickly the following is recommended: 
Apply alcohol and cover with whiting or 
talcum powder. For vertical wall stains, 
mix the talcum to a paste with alcohol, 
apply some alcohol to the stain and 
cover with the paste. Normally, one 
application is usually sufficient. 

Perspiration Stains— Use same 
method as for Are stains. T5ad stains 
may require several treatments. 



Urine Stains. — Use same method as 
for tobacco stains. If some of the stain 
is difficult to remove, saturate a layer 0 f 
cotton batting in the liquid and "paste 
over the spot. Repeat if necessary. 

TUNG, OR CHINAWOOD OIL 
COOKING: 

Raw Chinawood oil gives on drying a 
crystallized film which is unsuited for 
paint and varnish manufacture. 

Before using in paints, Chinawood oil 
should be carefully cooked, thereupon it 
will give a smooth, flexible -film. Heat 
the oil quite rapidly to 500-510° P. and 
then cool to 425-435°, keep at this tem- 
perature until the desired string is ob- 
tained, then cool at once, either by water 
or other means. In the event a thinner 
is added this temperature may be 
checked by the thinner. Care must he 
taken in cooling so that the oil does not 
jell. Driers or resins may be added if 
required. 

VARNISH FORMULAS INVOLV- 
ING THE USE OF SYNTHETIC 
RESINS: 

Phenolic Resin.— There are a large 
number of phenolic resins on the market 
which have been modified to meet special 
requirements. They are usually com- 
pounded with glyceryl phthalate, ester 
gum or natural resins. The manufac- 
turer of varnishes should consult with 
the resin producer to insure using the 
correct resin for his particular purpose. 

Phenolic Resin 100 pounds 

Chinawood oil 25 gal bus 

Kettle bodied linseed oil 8 gallons 

Mineral spirits 35 gallons 

Add cobalt and manganese drier. 
Heat the chinawood oil with the phe- 
nolic resin to 550° F., keep at this tem- 
perature for V a hour and check with tne 
linseed oil, mineral spirits and auaea 
driers, 

Four-Hour Vamish-Tbe following 
is a good four-hour varnish: ^ 

Coumarone resin 100 P°^„l 

/-ii • j -i 25 gallons 

Chinawood oil „ s n n ns 

V. M. & P. naphtha . . « S^° aS 

Lead-cobalt-manganese ^ 

Cook the oil to 550° F. *f? th " jfr- 
% the coumarone, keep at this ^ 
ature for 30 minutes; check wl ^} ie ii 
remainder of the coumarone i ^ph- 
enol enough, add the V. M. & * ■ 
tha and drier. 



WATERPROOFING— WOOD PRESERVATION 



Spar Varnish.-Majr be made up M 

follows: 10Q ounds 

Ester gum . . ■ ■ • ■ ■ j 

&M& P.' naphtha 65 gallons 

Turpentine 5 S allons 

TT ot the cblnawood oil plus % the 
we „ fn /iSO 0 F. and keep at this 



x !„m to 550° F. and keep at this 
ester gum h check ^ th(J 

'^acetate dissolved in the linseed oil 
i the remainder of the ester gum. 

t 43 s ° F - add solvents aud dricT ' 
Linoleum Varnish — 
Phenolic resin .... 100 pounds 
Chinawood oil ... - 25 gallons 
Mineral spirits .... 35 gallons 
Heat to 500° F. for 30 minutes, check 
1 mineral spirits. This gives a good 
ater and alkali-resistant varnish suit- 
hie for floors and linoleum. 
Vehicle for Aluminum Bronzing.— 

Coumarone resin 100 pounds 

Preheated chinawood oil 10 gallons 

xylol 7 s a ;;° ns 

V. M. & P. naphtha . . 18 gallons 
Dissolve the resin in xylol and naph- 
tha, .then add chinawood oil and drier. 

WATERPROOFING, WALL 
(EXTERIOR): 

Paraffin wax dissolved in volatile sul- 
vents is considered to he very efficient. 
For finer pore walls the addition of 
small amounts of fatty oil is suggested. 
This treatment will produce discolora- 
tions of an oily appearance. The melt- 
'ng-polnt of the wax should be high 
enough to prevent its flow during the 
summer months. Usually wax having a 
melting point of 135° F. is suitable. 

The Caffall process for waterproofing 
*alls is often used where durability is 
the prime requisite; the cost is some- 
what higher than that of various other 
^ethods. The process consists of pre- 
heating the walls and then applying 
' Molten paraffin. This process may be 
Used on damp walls. 



There are many other means that are 
also recommended. An inexpensive mix- 
ture which is reported as being very 
durable is the following: 

6 to 12 ounces high melting-point 

paraffin dissolved in 
1 gallon of solvent 

The solvent may be naphtha, gasoline 
or the like. The above formula is not 
suited for structures that have fine 
pores; the addition of 3 to 6 ounces of 
chinawood oil to the gallon of solvent 
will yield a satisfactory solution for ap- 
plication to fine-pore walls. 

The waterproofing treatments should 
be applied only when the walls are dry 
and clean and in warm weather. It is 
advisable to continue the application of 
the solutions until there is no further 
absorption — this will* likewise insure 
maximum penetration. Undue discolora- 
tions may be avoided by the removal of 
excess wax after concluding the treat- 
ment. 

Another well known method, Ran- 
some's process, is also used. This 
process consists in filling the pores of 
the stone with potassium or sodium sili- 
cate and permitting to dry, next a coat 
of calcium chloride is applied (using a 
different brush). Care must be taken to 
avoid dropping the solution on windows 
or painted surfaces. 

WOOD PRESERVATION: 

Creosote Oil. — Creosote oil is an ef- 
fective aS economical wood preserya- 
*e which also provides protec ion 
acainst wood-destroying inserts. It gives 
a g brown stain, penetrates deeply and 
Protects the inner wood as well as the 
oX It does not evaporation at 
unusually high temp-tures, wd 1 not du, 
solve in water and has 
weather durability-. _ One ^coa ^ 

a U ? m £,L S birder to Insure maximum 
advisable m order ^ n 

sion m a tan* « 




io,ooo Formulas for Home, Farm, and Workshop .... 

ORKSHOP AND LABORATORY METHODS 

* 

Preface 

How and Where To Procure Ingredients and Equipment 

Measuring Made Easy 

Buyers' Guide 

Common Names of Chemical Substances 

Latest Names of Drugs and Chemicals Translated into English 

Latin Abbreviations with English Definitions 

Useful Information Concerning Materials 

Note Concerning the Indexes 

10,000 Formulas 

Index 

Supplementary Index 



NOTE CONCERNING THE INDEXES 



Two very complete ready reference Indexes 
will be found in the back of this book. The 
second or Supplementary Index, refers to items 
in most recent development. In using these In- 
dexes, the Editors suggest that you consult 
every possible heading, as frequently a formula 
may be indexed under a very general classifica- 
tion instead of the particular one you are look- 
ing for. 



xxxix 



ALSO CONSULT INDEX ON PAGES 881 AND 882 

INDEX 



.. .705 

Acid-proof Alloy ■ ^ 

Cement 10 

Corks 874 

Glass 0 

Acid-proofing ...^ 

Arid-proof lat-tes- 



Lining 



10 



Acid-prcut rw«- 

Putty - 9 

Table Top 

Acid Receptacles, 

Acifciing; Paint 400 

Acids, Soldering bSb 

Add Stains Removed ....18- 

Test for Gold -. .«8» 

for Vinegar . .... . 

Acomte-Monkshood Poison. 9i 

A ^elt i0 Pa S VeV "for* incr'ea^ 

ing ;V on 

Adhesive Paste 80 

Adhesivcs V"iii? 

Adhesive Plaster, to .Re- 
'move -Without Pain.. 10 

Adulterants in Foods -34a 

Adulteration of Linseed 

Oil «5 

of Wax "8 

Adurol Developer oil 

Affixing Labels to Glass . . 42 
Agar Agar Paste . . .... d 1 

Agate, Buttons of Artificial 41 

Agate (Imitation) 3™ 

Age of Eggs - 

Aging of Silk v V 

Agricultural Sources of In- 
dustrial Alcohol AG 8 

Air Bath : ** 

Bubbles in Gelatine 

Exclusion of 5 ^J 

Air-purifying 44 

Albata Metal 63 

Albumen "4 

in Urine, Detection of - - 44 
Paste 37 



Alloy, Acid-proof 62 

for Caliper and Gage-rod 

Castings 80 

Watch Pinion Sockets. . .736 

Lipowitz's 61 

Moussets' 70 

Alloys ■ 47 

Copper, Silver, Cadmium 70 
For'Casting Coins, etc. . . 62 

for Cementiug Glass 52 

for Drawing Colors on 

Steel 80 

for Metal Foil ......... .474 

for Small Casting Molds. 80 

having a Density 48 

Silver, Nickel, Zinc 78 

Tin 

Unclassified • 80 

Almond Blossom Perfum- 
ery 518 

Cold Cream 235 

Extracts ^'.VI "Si* 

Powders for the Toilet. .242 

Altars, to Clean l|» 

Alum - 

Baking Powder "J 

Bath lf„ 

Ointment r'--W'"a 

Process of Water Purifi- 
cation 34 ° 

Aluminum Alloys . ■ . .. ■ - ■ *° 
Electrical Conductivity 

of 

Aluminum-brass •<••••■■* *«_ 
Aluminum Bronze ....50, oj< 

Castings ■ 1 go 

Aluminum-Copper 

Aluminum Gilding 6 ™ 

iSinVFiuid-for-::::::324 

How to Color ■ f 

Lacquer for * 0? 

Paper V-rV'ssi 

Plating 5n ] So 



50 
50 



Alcohol 44 

Absolute •• 45 

Defined 667 

Deodorized 45, 514 

Dilution of 45, 703 

in Beer 4a 

Manufacture 607, 071 

Solid 45 

Tests for Absolute 45 

Ale « 

Ginger I 07 

Alfenide Metal DJ 

Alkali Blue and Nicholson's 

Blue Dye 207 

Alkalis and Their Salts 

Poison 93 

Alkaline Glycerine of Thy- 
mol 10° 

Alkaloids, Antidotes to .--10? 
Alkermes Cordial 763 



Polishes • • 50 75 

Aluminum-Silver - ■ ■ ■ ■ • 

Aluminum Solders g0 

Aluminum-Tin ... — m 

Aluminum, t0 ^ le f£ * -nd 
Toughness, Density ana ^ 

Tenacity 50 

Aluminum Varnish _ 83 

Working of Sue^c 5Q 

Aluminum-Zinc -^v^ng 
Amalgam for ^enie" gQ 

Glass, etc 65 

for Plaster . oo 
for Silvering Glass 
for the Rubber of iww- Q(j 

trie Machines m 

Gold Plating 85 

Amalgams 72 

for Mirrors 90 

Amber 26 

Cements ...718 

Varnish .02a 
Ambrosia Powder .... u 8 
American Champagne 

Factory Cheese ■ 110 

Lemonade '"com- n 

S fa ft ny'KYlSp ft edCream 2 43 



Amethyst (Imitation) ....370 

Amidol Developer 528 

Ammon-carbonite 331 

Ammonia 91 

for Fixing Prints 536 

Household 81 

Poison 98 

Violet Color for 91 

Water 245, 519 

Perfumed 01 

Anchovies, Essence of — 98 

Anchovy Paste — ••• 98 

Preparations 98 

Sauce, Extemporaneous . Of 

Angostura Bitters 765 

Anise Cordial 76 i 

Aniline 26J 

Black Dye 2S°> 2Ti 

Substitutes 271 

Black Lake Dye 27 

Blue Dye **) 

Green Dye for Wool 26 

for Silk ■ ■ ■ • 26! 

in Pigments, Tests for . .560 

Scarlet Dye 271 

Stains, to Remove 183 

Yellow Dye 271 

Animals, F 1 y Protection 

for — «; 

Ankara " kit 

Annealing Bronze 

Anodynes • • • ■ * • - 2q 

Ansco Platinum Paper . . . .529 
Ant Destroyers 
Anti-corrosive or Asiatic^ 

Antidoles for Beilado'nna.: 9| 
for Poisons g7 

Metal ••••*■:.■'• .868 

Baths ...566 
Antique Bronzes 639 

Silver 640 

Imitation or ■•■;•*'• 98 

Paper for Needles ■•; 62 5 



Bromine 



Soto 



Pastes 
Antiseptic 

tion 

Oil of Cinnamon 
Paste (Poison) .- 

Pencils 

powders ...644 

laonVc^oring-for ..ig 
Tooth Powder 



100 
.780 
.467 
.100 
99 
99 
08 



INDEX 



lMseptles 93 

for C:\gcd Birds 720 

Mouth 90 

its. To Prevent 101 

aollinuris Lemonade ....110 

Tater 740 

jple Extract 312 

Syrup 812 

jplleations for Prickly 

Heat .....808 

If Barium Amalgams ... 80 
>f Bismuth Amalgams ... 88 
af Cadmium Amalgams. . 87 
of Copper Amalgams ... 87 

of Gold Amalgams 80 

of Lead Amalgams 83 

of M an.gan es e Amal- 



gams 



87 



Applications of Potassium 

Amalgams • 86 

of Silver Amalgams S8 

of Sodium Amalgams ... 80 
of Strontium Amalgams. 80 

of Tin Amalgams 87 

of Zinc Amalgams 87 

Applying Deealcomania 

Pictures .250 

Apricot Extract 312 

Aquarium Putty 608 

Argentan 69 

Arguzoid 70 

Armenian Cement 20 

Arms, Oil for 460 

Arnica Salve 486 

Aromatic Cod-Liver Oil... 482 

Cotton 246 

Rhubarb Remedy ISO 

Vinegar 735 

Arsenic Alloys 63, 75 

Arsenic Poison 98, 614 

Art Bronzes ...57, 550 

of Lacquering , . . . 437 

Artificial Aging of Fabrics. C39 

Beeswax 754 

Butter 142 

Ciders iai 

Coloring of Flowers 340 

Egg Oil 281 

Fertilizers for Pot Plants 338 

Flowers, Dyes for 272 

Flower Fertilizer 337 

Horn 3 9(3 

Leather 447 

Marbles !!o9B 

Rubber ....019 

"Rubbered" Silk 

Slate C43 

Violet Perfumery sis 

Water 73 9 

Asbestos Cement '30 

Fabric ' 343 

Asphalt and Pitch 33 

as Ingredient of Rubber. 619 

in Painting . , . . 71 g 

Varnishes ". ! ' *718 

Assaying of Gold 381 

Asthma Cures 101 

Fumigating Powders ."..'lOl 

in Canaries 795 

Papers """101 

Astringents 793 

Wash for Flahby'skin/234 
Atomic Weights 75a 
Atomizer Liquid for ' Sick 

Rooms 2Qi 

Attaching Enamel Letters 

to Glass i9 

by Cement 1T 

Atropine, Antidote to .. "102 

Aqua Aromatica 102 

Fortis for the Touch- 
stone ... 00 1 

:io! 



Aquarium Cements 81 

Automobile Enamel .. . .. .590 

Automobile Engines, Cool- 
ing 868 

Autcfmobile Fire Ex- 
tinguisher ■ ■ • ■ 340 

Automobile Headlights 

Frosted 864 

Automobile Polishes 590 

Automobiles, Anti-freezing 

Solution 363 

Was Similar to Simon iz 102 

B 

Babbitt-Metals 50 

Baking Powders 102 

Balance Spring -733 

Baldness 392 

Balkan Paste 83 

Ball Blue 281, 444 

Bali-Room Floor Powder.. 34-5 

Balsam, Birch ' 103 

of Sulphur 3S0 

Spray Solution 103 

Balsam, Stains, to Re- 
move 194 

Wild-cherry 103 

Balsams ...102 

Balsamic Cough Syrup ... .211 
Banana Bronzing Solution. 439 

Cream 115 

Extract For Painting . . 108 

Syrup 312 

Banjo Sour 1)0 

Barbers' Itch 486 

Powder 243 

Barium Amalgams 8G 

Poison 615 

Barometers (Paper) 402 

Bath, Air 44 

Metal 03 

Powder 242 

Tablets, Effervescent ...103 
Tonic for Flabby Flesh. 103 

Bath tub Enamel 721 

Faint 501 

Batteries, Solution for 104 

Basis for Effervescent 

Salts 627 

Baudoin Metal 63 

Bavaroise au Cognac 118 

Bay Rum 101, 513 

Bear Fat 333 

Bearing Lubricant 401 

Metal 50 

Beauty Preparations. 225, 702 

Water 244 

Bedbug Destroyers 420 

Beechwood Furniture 

_ Polish 5B3 

Beef and Iron 771 

Iron, and Wine lot 

Beef-marrow Pomade 227 

Beef Peptonoids 509 

Preservatives ggo 

' rci1 ,112 

Beer n8 

Brewing 133 

Lemon 1(l8 

Restoration of Spoiled! .'105 

Spruce 11B 

Treacle 

Weiss 

Beers, Alcohol in , 45 

Beetle Powder ... " '405 
Bees, Foul Brood in. . " "105 
Beeswax, Artificial . . 754 
Belladonna, Antidotes for'. 93 

Bell Metal r, 

Belt Cement « 

Glue ;; "g 

Lubricant , \\ \ ; 4 g 2 



Belt, Pastes for Increaslnt- 

Adliesion s ,.„ 

Benedictine iy, 5 

Bengal Lights \\ ™o 

Bent Glass ^ 

Benzine ^1 

Cleaning with iS® 

Purification of 

Non-Explcsivo 
Benzoic Acid, Detection 

in Food' \H 
Benzole-acid Pastilles ??, 
Benzoin-Glycerine Soap""nti 

Benzoparal "\m 

Berge's Blasting Powder" "ml 

Beverages 

Yellow Coloring for "ni 

Bibra Alloy I? 

Bicycle Dipping Varnish "710 
Bicycle-tire Cement ... " 
Bicycle Varnishes .,. "710 
Bicycles, Black Paint for"4n£ 
Biderv Metal ... it 

Billiard Balis .A&'ul 

Birch Balsam 103 

Birch-Bud Water . 519 

Birch Water 

Bird Diseases, Remedies 723 

Foods 120", '729 

Bird Lime . , , 453 

Paste , !i4 5 

Tonic '720 

Birds, Antiseptic W a s h 

for 729 

Constipation in 729 

Diarrhoea in 729 

Biscuit, Dog 265 

Bismarck Brown Dye .... .267 

Bismuth . 49 

Alloys 53 

Amalgams, Applications 

Of 88 

Bronze 70 

Purification of 380 

to Purify 380 

Biting Off Red-hot Iron... 612 
Bitter Almond Oil Poison. 93 

Bitters 763 

Blackberry Cholera Mix- 
ture ISO 

Cordial 763 

Blackboard Paint and Var- 
nish 4S9 

Varnish 720 

Black Color on Brass 129 

Dye for Tanned Leather. 447 

on Cotton 266 

on Wool, for Mixtures.267 

Blackening Iron ■ 

"Black Eve" Lotion 333 

Black Finish for Brass . ■ .1^ 

Grease Paints 

Hair Dve without Silver. 399 

Blackhead Remedies 

Blacking Copper J»4 

for Harness *5 

for Shoes 5oS 

Stove 0 

Black Japanese Varnish- •• 71 * 
Lake Dyes for wall- 
paper • fct9 

Marble, Imitation 

Marking Inks .... ■ ■ „* 
Paint for Polished Iron.4»-> 

Pa-HH 8, "".'ooT 
Putty 40 s 

Ruling Ink .- — ' fi ot 

Sheet Rust Preventive .-^ 

Starch • • 355 

Straw Hat Varnish ■■•■ n g 

Varnish * 4 *v'm,' 150 

Wash for Casting Molds. i J 



INDEX 



861 



Blanket ff « 3SU 

BUl ^^ongc Trick 

BS r fs d Feop 

Blenches, Uo ne _ 120 
Bleaclnng- - { ^ ■ * fathers ..335 
and Coioriuo 121 

Blue ct-pn'mina:' .2*5 
Cotton by fateamiub ' _ _ 245 

Cotton ' 131 335 

Feathers 1 120 

Linen . \ .459 

0f H ydWen Peroxide -.24, 
JSoto^pMc^'Prints^^ 

c .X Tllite //////AVo'.Vso 

Ik* Salves" .231, 643 

£ tfpWraphs'::::::^ 3 

Solutions for Laundry. .446 

Water G7a 

Sponges 1SQ 

¥a r &s*andFat 3 *:::'.:^4 

Bleeding Local ^ 

Blight Remedies • ■ ^ 

B isters, for Horses T23 

Block for Soldering ■■••V C67 
Hollow Concrete Build-^ 

ing. 694 

Machines 4,VLl 

Blocks Poured from Wet 

Concrete 

Blood-red Brick Stain 

Blotting Paper 

Blue, Ball 

Blue-black Ink 

Patina 

Blue Bronze 



83U 

611 

Bid 



from 

6B4 

.16G 
.503 
.281 I 
.414 
.585 
.138 

Dye"for Hosiery . . . . • ■ -368 
from Green at Night ...121 

Indelible Ink 400 

Blueprint Inks 40 ,f 

Marking Fluid \j\ 

Paper Making * 

Blueprints, to Change 121 

to Turn Brown 5 j* 

Waterproofing ]*\ 

Blue Ruling Ink 403 

Sanitary Powder 20J 

Vitriol Poison »*• 

Bluing 

Compounds 443 

Of Steel G82 

Bluish-black Lake Dye 278 

Bluish Pink Dye on Cotton 

Textile 270 

Board-sizing ■ 88 

Boiled Oil 484 

Boiler Compounds I 21 

Plates, Protecting from 

Scales 122 

Pressure I™ 3 

Scales, Prevention of . . -122 
Boiling the Linseed Oil ...400 

Boil Remedy I 21 

Bone Black 123 

Bleaches 430 

Fat 833 

Fertilizers 83 8 

or Ivory Black 1 33 

Uniting Glass with 1" 

Bones, A Test for Broken. 121 
Treatment of, in Manu- 

■ factoring Glue 1° 

Bookbinders 7 Varnish 720 

Book Disinfectant 2«3 

How to Open 125 



Bookworms 42 S 

Books, their Preservation A2 \ 

to Remove Marks from. 180 
Boot Dressings ....031 

Lubricant 460 

Boot-top Liquid 032 

Boots, Waterproofing 750 

Borated Apple Blossom 
Powder 243 

Talcum 510 

Borax in Food 350 

for Sprinkling 125 

Soap Powder G50 

Boric Acid, Detection cf...S50 

Borotonic 258 

Bottling Sweet Cider 181 

Bottle-cap Lacquer 440 

Bottle-Capping Mixtures . .120 

Bottle Cleaners 210 

Deodorizer 1 127 

Stoppers 700 

Varnish 720 

Wax 553 

Bottles 128 

White Glass for 373 

Bouillon 113 

Chicken 112 

Clam 11 3 

Hot Egg 11 J 

Tomato Extract 212 

Bowls of Fire Trick 611 

Bos Glue • " 

Bradley Platinum Paper... 520 

"Braga" .- 11 J 

Bran, Sawdust m ••••■•■•ir.o 
Brandy, Artificial French. 7b8 
and Brandy Bitters ....762 

Brass ,. }" 

* ijmTiTB for i»" 



Brick Walls, to Clean 1D7 

to Renovate 190 

Waterproofing 134 

Bricks 151 

Glaze for 377 

of Sand-lime . .089 

Polish for 600 

Brie, Cheese 170 

Brightening Pickle 4B9 

Bright lied Rouge 229 

Briihantine ,890 

Floricmn 483 

Brimstone (Burning) 611 

Bristol Brass (Prince's 

Metal) 53 

Britannia Metal 55 

to Clean 201 

Silver-plating 587 

British Champagne 118 

Oil 484 

Brocchieri's Styptic 701 

Brocq's Pomade for Itch- 
ing 22S 

Broken Bones, A Test for:124 

Bromine, Antiseptic 100 

Bromoform I s * 

Rum 

Bronze, Aluminum •>» 

Annealing *>» 

Articles, Polish for 591 

Casting 150 

Cleaning 202, 205 

Coloring ld ° 



Dye 



.272 



for Brass ifjj 

Gilding ;: ;;l 3 t 5 



Leather . 
Lettering 



.456 
58 



A Bronze for 
Brass and Bronze Protec- 
tive Paint ....... -....f f, 

ffl« 8 !^.?!:l Bronze Powde™ ....MW 



Machine "° 

Phosphor J™ 

Polishes »J 

Powder, Liquid for 507 



S23 

17 

570 
130 



Black Color --- -- 

Black Finish for .-1" 

Bronzing ™? 

Coloring .....■•■■•• 1M ' 4 ™ 

Colors for Polished 1*1 

Etching Bath for 

Fluid for 
Fastening Porcelain to 

Gilding 

Graining of . . . ■ • • ■ ;* n 53 
Brass-Iron (Aich's Metal). Si 
Brass Parts, Improved ...13- 

Pickle for gofl 

Platinizing 500 

Polishes 150 

Sand Holes in £ 5T 

Solders ■ 5i 

to Cast Yellow 

Tombac Color on }f 

Unpolished Coloring ....123 
Varnishes Imitating Gold 7.5 
Brassing,,. ■ .' .531 



Lacquers 



Zinc, Steel, 
Brassware, Lorn «*-- 440 

for ' ...266 
Bread, Dog - • • • • Remedies 
Breath, Fetid, «« nic 133 

for . 258, 707 

Perfumes -■ >i83 u 

Brewers* Yeast . • — ^ers' 
Brick ana 1C<1 

SSf&SBS"^ " :: i8 

Colors • '','\i'LLa"'\ 1*7 

Brickmakers' Notes ...ooo 
Brick Polishes ' n&i l9(J 

Stair 



Preparations „ 05 
Bronze, Renovation of ...^ 

Silicon •• C1 

Steel ! " '1 37 

Substitutes • • •* l at 

Tincture 135 ' "{ 

to Renovate * . 

Varnishes '| 5 

Bronzes 57 

Art ;;!!'. 138 
Pickle for g7 

Statuary 5BG 

Bronzing 'i"\rii- 
and Patinizing ° f ^™ 136 

Fn -raved Ornaments" ...If 
general Directions for ..135 

Liquid !..5Q7 

Metals ** .,.571 

of Brass ggn 

of Gas Fixtures 

Of Wood 1£ 7 

of zino . .... ; . ,439 

Solutions for Fwnts . . 
with Soluble Glass 
Brooches, vmt0 °™* 1 1 °S51 

Brown Dye for Cotton. . 

for Silk ;...267 

for Wool .,..267 

and SilK • goo 

Hair Dye 583 

Browning of Steel >4U 

Brown Ink .,.,489 

Ointment . .■ ■■ • ' ' _..is9 
Oxidation on Bronze - 

Shoo » ressi ?^,^tibn ' . •«» 
Bro\vnstone. Imitation 

Brown Tints ;,...72« 

Varnish 




INDEX 



nette or Rachelle Pow- 
der 242 

rushes 140 

Brush less Shaving 1 Cream. .140 

Bubbles 141 

in Gelatine 370 

Buff" Terra, Cotta Slip 100 

Wheels, Rouge for 018 

Bug Killers 420 

Building Blocks, Concrete. 091 

Bunions 224 

Burning Banana Trick ...103 

Brimstone 011 

Sealing Wax 01 1 

Burns 480 

Carbolic Acid 147 

Mixture for 143 

Remedy 141 

Steel, to Restore Gt><3 

Bust Reducer 015 

Butter 1^2, 351 

Artificial, Tests for 854 

Color 142, 359 

Buttermilk, Artificial 143 

Buttons of Artificial Agate 44 
Flatine for 80 



c 

Cadmium Alloy, about the 
Hardness of Zinc .... 77 

Alloy3 01, 64 

with Gold, Silver, and 

Copper 02 

Amalgams, Applications 

of 87 

Calcium Carbide 144 

Sulphide (Luminous) ..404 

Callous Spots on Feet 144 

Camera, Renovating a ... 553 

mpchello 117 

mphor for Cholera 180 

iphorated and Carbo- 

lated Powders 252 

Cold Cream 220 

Ice 145 

Pomade 145 

Preparations 144 

Camphorated Substitutes in 
the Preparation of 

Celluloid 157 

Canary-Bird P'ood 720 

Paste ..145 

inary Birds, Their Dis- 
eases 720 

ancrete , . \ " ggg 

Candles '145 

Coloring 1 45,' 140 

Fumigating 3G5 

Transparent 1 45 

Candy 21 (i 

Colors and Flavors 218 

Candy Kisses 140 

Orange Drops '.210 

Canned Vegetables a 52 

Canning gpg 

without Sugar .."!""!! 603 
Canthandes and Modern 
Potato Bug Poison ... 94 

Pomade gg 2 

Can Varnish ' ' * * '720 

Canvas Waterproofing . . . "742 

Caoutchouc [jig 

Solution for Paints '.710 

opacities of Utensils 703 

Capsule Varnish 720 

Capping Mixtures for 

Carame s 143, 210 

Caramel in Food 35c 

12-Carat 4.9 R 

lVCarat Gold V.'. Al 

18-Carat Gold for Rings ..433 



22-Carat Solder 433 

1 Carats, to Find the Num- 
ber of 482 

Carbolic Acid 147 

Carbolic-acid Burns 147 

Decolorization of 147 

Disguising Odor of 147 

Carbolic Powder 263 

Soap 04.7 

Carbolineum 497 

Carbonated Pineapple 

Champagne 118 

Carbon Ink 403 

Paper 503 

Printing 531 

Process in Photography. 531 

Carbuncle Remedies ..121 

Cardboard or Leather Glue" 15 

Waterproofing 751 

Cards (Playing), to Clean. 209 
Care of Refrigerators .,..401 
Carmelite Balm Water ...519 

Carmine 403 

Lake Dye for Wall 

Paper 278 

Carnation Lake Dye 277 

Carpet Preservation 399 

Soap ....644 

Carpets, How to Preserve. 399 
Carriage-top Dressing ....448 

Carron Oil : ..242 

Case Hardening ... 684 

Casein 34, 148 

Albumen, and Glue .... 34 

Cements -20 

Massage Cream 233 

Paste 38 

Varnish 34 

Cashmere Perfumery 516 

Casket Trimmings 150 

Casks 140 

Watertight 149 

Cassius, Purple of 383 

Cast Brass 53 

Cast-brass Work, Sand 

Holes in 150 

Castile Soap, to Cut 644 

Casting ue 

Copper 63 

in Wax 755 

Molds, Alloys for 80 

of Soft Metal Castings. .151 
Castings, Making in Alumi- 
num si 

Castings Out of Various 

Metals 149 

to Soften Iron 427 

Cast-iron Soldering .660 

Castor Oil 153 

Castor-oil Chocolate 

Lozengas 354 

Castor Oil, How to Take.. 154 

Tasteless 153 

Casts from Wax Models .".755 
(Plaster), Preservation 

of - -. ■ 595 

Repairing of Broken ... 26 

Catatypy I54 

Cat Diseases and Remedies 732 
Caterpillar Destroyers . 423 

Catgut 155 

Sutures, Preparation of, 155 

Catsup, Adulterated 353 

Cattle Dips and Applica- 
tions 

Caustic Potash Poison',* 9*8- 04 

Ceiling Cleaners 400 

Celery Clam Punch 112 

Compound 155 

Cellars, Waterproof . 400 

Cellophane Adhesive 155 

Cells, Solutions and Fillers 
for Battery 104 



Celluloid 

Cements and Glues ""' 1% 

Glue for " xl 

Lacquer " At 

of Reduced Inuamma"- 
bllity lsa 

in 

Cement eg™ 

Armenian '. '. . . [ 20 

Asbestos ni 

Cheap and Excellent ' ". " 3n 

Colors " es8 

Diamond Glass .... o a 

for Belts ' " jj, 

for Chemical Apparatus* ' 31 
for Cracks in Stovesioa 36h 

for Film le ° 

for General Use 31 

for Glass 21, 25, 28 

for Iron and Marble 17 

for Ivory \ 3 j 

for Leather and Iron"' 25 

for Metals 21" 25 

for Metal on Hard Rub"- 

ber 22 

for Pallet Stones .. 'lea 

for Pasteboard and Paper 21 

for Patching Boots 23 

for Pipe Joints 102. 

for Porcelain Letters ... 19 

for Sandstones 17 

, for Steam and Water 

Pipes ,.iei 

for Watch lid 20 

forWaterpipe 162 

Hydraulic 33 

Cementing Celluloid and 
Hard-rubber Articles.. 18 

Cement Jewelers 20 

Mordant for 479 

on Marble Slabs ia 

Paints for 409 

Parisian 30 

Protection of, Against 

Acid 9 

Rubber for Cloth 24 

to Paint Over Fresh 409 

Transparent for Glass . . 28 

Strong 30, 32 

Universal 81 

Work, Protection for ..162 

Cements 16, 161 

Amber 28 

Aquarium 31 

Casein 20 

Celluloid -. 17 

for Attaching Letters on 

Glass ■ is 

for Fastening Porcelain 

to Metal 25 

for li on 24 

for Leather .22, 23 

for Metals 24 

Waterproofing "65 

for Rubber ■ 2» 

for Stone '0 

for Tires 33 

for Wntcr-glass 79 

Meerschaum ^0 

Sign-letters , - - ^ 

Silicate of Oxychloride. . 35 

Ceramics l^ 1 

Ch:iin of Fire 61 f 

Chains (Watch), to Clean. 20 S 

Chalk for Tailors I 6 * 

Chamois Skin, to Clean 

Champagne 11 r 

Cider "I 

Chapped Skin ^3 

Cbnpphie Cream l %' 

Charta Sinapis 48U 

Chartreuse 7?« 

Cheddar Cheese 170 



INDEX 



863 



eese . • 

cSSSi f APP^atus, 

meiit for 

Gardens 

Reagents 



, ...174 

35B 

for. 474 

Co 

3X 

368 

349 

103 



a - err „ Balsam ;^ 

Cordial . ..112 

Chewing Uinaj J7g 
Cheshire tneese 



Chestnut 



Brown Dye for 



Ha 
Chicken 



Straw Bonnets 207 

air Dye ■ • • 112 



Chicken-cooP 

Chicken Uibeaseb obo 



353 
.486 
.265 
205 



.46 

. a 

.179 

.111 

.154 
.312 
.114 
.111 



1 



Chicory, Tests for 

SSSnf Doses 'for-:::: 

Karen's Tooth Powder...,. 

CMna 

pomade „„. 

Repairing 

Riveting li Jt 

Silver Alloy 

to Toughen 

Chinese Toot" Paste 257 

Chlorides, Piatt .a « *i* wi 
Qiloriding Mineral Lubri 

eating Oils 

Chlorine-proofing 

Chocolate 

and Milk 

Castor-oil Lozenges 

Extracts 

Frapp 6 

Hot 

Soda Water J« 

Cholera Remedies "J 

Chowchow -•• v 

Chrome Black Dye for 

■Wool 207 

Chromium Plating 790 

Chromo Making 180 

Cider • \m 

Preservative * , 

Vinegar 735 

Cigarettes, Asthma 101 

Cigar Flavoring 183 

Sizes and Colors 182 

Spots 183 

Cigars 182 

Cinnamon Essence 812 

Oil as an Antiseptic . . . .100 
or Brown Dye for Cotton 

and Silk 28 7 

Cinchona 771 

Pomade 392 

Citrate of Magnesium ....464 

Clam Bouillon H3 

Claret Lemonade 11° 

Punch 110. II 2 

Clarification of Gelatin and 

Glue 3 70 

Clarifying I 84 

Muddy Water 741 

Gay 33, 184 

Clay for Complexion 180 

Claying Mixture for 

Forges 184 

Clean "Bronze 202 

Cleaner, Universal 209 

Cleaning Linoleum »" 

Marble 106 

■Polished Woodwork 104 

Brass on Clock ...206 

Bronze Objects 205 

Clocks 207 1 

Copper 200 

Copper Sinks ..202- 



Cleaning Electro-plate 

Goods 205 

Funnels and Measures. ,204 
Gilded Work on Altars. 185 

Gilded Articles iss 

Gilded Bronzes 205 

Gilt Bronze "Ware 201 

Glass, Paste for ....... .208 

Inferior Gold Articles ..207 

Lamp Globes 209 

Laaprer Chairs 210 

Marble Furniture, etc... 107 
Methods and Processes. .209 
of Copperplate Engrav- 
ings 300 

of Statuettes and Plaster 

Objects 504 

of Walls, Ceilings, and 

Paper 190, 897 

Oil Stains on Wall 

Paper 100 

Optical Lenses 208 

Paint Brushes 140 

Painted and Varnished 

Surfaces 194 

Painted Doors, Walls, 

etc t 90 

Pearls ...208 

Preparations, 

145, 184, 397, 590, 844 
Preparation for Glass 
with Metal Decora- 
tions 208 

Pewter Articles 205 

Powder ■ }%* 

Skins and Leather 188 

Silver-plated Ware 200 

Terra Cotta, i?l 

Toilets 

Tracings 

Varnish Brushes 



Cocoa Mint . 115 

Sy^P ".112 

Cocoas 112 

Cod Liver Oil and Its 

Emulsion 4,82- 

Coffee .8 53 

Cocktail .114 

Cordial 753 

Cream Soda 113 

Essence 814 

Extracts 313 

for the Soda Fountain. .111 

Frappfi .,..114 

Hot 111 

Iced 114 

Nogg 114, 115 

Substitutes for .210 

Syrups 318 

Coil Spring 68S 

Springs, to Temper 68S 

Coin Cleaning 200 

Counterfeit, to Detect. . .246 
Coins, Impressions of ,..".407 

Matrix for 487 

Colas 728 

Cold and Cough Mixtures. 2 11 

Chemical Gilding 577 

Cream 225 

Enameling 721 

Soldering 665 

Varnish 54 3 

Colie in Cattle : -729 

CoUapsible Tubes, Skin 

Cream 239 

Tooth Paste for 257 

Collodion 212 

Cologne .. 514 

for Headaches « 94 



194 

141 



Fumigat- 



.535 
.101 



Wall Paper . ... .......... -"I 

Whitewashed Walls 19U 

Window Panes * m 

Cleansing Fluids * 4I§ 

Clearing Baths . 
Cleary's Asthma 
ing Powder , 

Cliche Metal Jl 

Clock-bell Repairing J« 

Clock Cleaning 

Clock-dial Lettering 
Cock Hands, to Reblack..738 
Clockmakers' Cleaning Pro- 

ccsse , s " 43 2 
Clock Oil 738 

era 191 



Cleaners 



Clothes-Cleanins Fluids ...MJ 

to Iron, Gluing 7 J« 

Waterproofing , , 0!) 

ClXs fo P r r^X g MirrorV4?7 
Clouding of Mouth Mirror ^ 

Cloudless Ca ^ m Sne^".f.51G 
Clove Pink Perfumery - ^ 484 

Coal Oil 62 g 

Coal, to Save . . . '.01 2 

Coals, to Eat Burning • 
Coating for Ba U« ° oms • >4B0 

for Damp Walls m 

for Name P^ '-■ ith 
Metallic Surfaces g77 

asr^r °vr powder o4 



CochtoeaTlBsect Remedy 



.422 



Waters -- 794 

Coloration of Copper and 
Brass with Cupric 

Selenite .......563 

Colored Alloys for Alumi- 

num 

Celluloid If 

Fireproofing 

Fires 591 

Floor Polishes 

Gilding "Vfi5 *871 

Glass 165 ' eg 

Gold Alloys --. 03 

Hygroscopes 414 

Inks ' 439 

Lacquer .... m ■ 

Marking Inks .... - • • • • * „ 
People's Recipes ...393, gg 

Kings on MeUl . • m 

Sand ,. .043 

Skin Bleach ■■•••*•;" inR 
Coloring Benedine Gwen.-WJ 

Brass, •■•a-- V,;i'f 0 r the 
Ceresme Candles ior ^ 

Christmas Tree 4gl 

Common Gold • 47S 

Copper . .- • • - • - • ■ ■ v ' " and 
Electric-bght Bums ^ sn 

Globes ' 129 

Fluid for Brass 0 

Gold Jewelry .US 
Incandescent Lamps ...^ 

Matter In Fats m g 08 

Metals l28i 570 

of Brass . „..S6S 
of Modeling Plaster 5U 

perfumes " " " . . .640 

Silver '....644 

ggfcj* Varnisbes;..;.^ 

Colorings for Jew 4SJ 

Work 



INDEX 



Iron 



r Enamel 721 

holography 548 

Sins, for Wood 782 

or Stamps for Hough 

Paper ..411 

esting 559 

rs 200 

d Sizes of Cigars ....182 

r Confectionery 218 

or Paints 655 

for Polished Brass 127 

for Pomade 228 

for.^vrups 702 

Fusible Enamel 300 

Combined Alum and Hypo 

Bath 535 

Toning and Fixing Baths 542 
Comfortable, Washing 1 ...399 
Commercinl Enameling ...290 

Formaldehyde 862 

Mucilage <3 

Common Silver for Chains. 43 1 

Silver Solder 434 

Compacts .794 

imposition Files 339 

for Cleaning Copper, 
Nickel, and other 

Metals 203 

for Linoleum, Oilcloth, 

etc. 450 

for Writing on Glass ...370 
of Various Hard Solders 663 
"mpositions for Ships' 

Bottoms 498 

mpost for Indoor Plants. 337 
nipound for Cleaning 

Brass 203 

Salicylntcd Collodion 

Corn Cure £24 

Solution of Thymol 100 

ncentrated Lye Poison. . B3 

nerete ..689 

Blocks, Properties of... 605 

Tamping of 695 

nerete Block Systems. . ,094 

Building Block 601 

Mixers 093 

ndimental Sauces 353 

ndiments 212 

Tests for Adulterated ..349 

ndition Powders 729 

for Cattle ,729 

Conductivity of Aluminum 

Alloys 43 

onfectionery 140, 21 G 

Colors 218 

Constipation in Birds ....729 
ntracted Hoof or Sore 

Feet in Cattle 730 

onversion of Metric into 

English Measure 730 

Cooling Screen gio 

aoking Vessels, Glazes 

for 377 

Cook 1 e Table " "703 

Cooper's Pen Metal ! 74 

^>pal Varnish 720 

oPeer 210 

A1| oys ..• 51, 70 

Amalgam 90 

Amalgams, Applications 

of 87 

and Brass Gilding 577 

Platinizing 588 

A Permanent Patina for.585 

Arsenic q% 

Articles, Polish for"!! "591 

Bronzing 566 

£ Ie , an .' n S 200 

k° lor,I V? 221, 473 

Enameling 294 

f tch 'nir 324 

In Pood 05i 

.!!.!!! es 



Copper Lacquers .439 

Nickel 52 

Paint for 4« 5 

Paper 507 

Patinizing and Plating. .581; 

Polishes 590 

Separation of Gold from. 382 

Copper-Silver Alloy 75 

Copper, Silver, and Cad- 
mium Alloys 

Solder for Plating 434 

Solders 059 

to Bronze I 36 

Varnishes 72 s 

Coppering 572 

Glass 512 

Plaster Models, etc 573 

Zinc Plate 673 

Copying Ink 415 

Printed Pictures 222 

Process on Wood ^2 

Cordage .....223 

Lubricant 463 

Waterproofing 753 

Cordials 703 

Cork as a Preservative . .606 

Cleaner 210 

to Metal, Fastening .... 36 

Corks 223 

Impermeable and Acid- 
proof 10 

to Clean 210 

Waterproofing 742 

Corn Plaster 224 

Cures 224 

Corrosive Sublimate Poison 04 

Cosmetic Jelly 232 

Cosmetics 225, 702 

Cottenham Cheese 170 

Cotton 215 

Belts, Lubrication 4G2 

Decreasing 24G 

Cottonseed, Extracting 011.482 
Hulls as Stock Food ...240 

Oil 482 

Compress Cough Balsam 
with Iceland Moss ... .211 

Drops , 217 

Mixtures and Remedies. 211 

for Cattle 730 

Syrup 211 

Counter Polishes 590 

Court Plasters 247, 563 

Cow Diseases — Remedies... 730 

Powder 730 

Cow's Milk, Powder for... 732 

Cracked Leather 448 

Cracks in Tools, to Render 

Visible 686 

Crayons 874 

for Graining and Marb- 

, Ung 247 

for Writing on Glass ..874 

Creams ,225, 7 02 

Anti-kink Hair 393 

Beef Tea n 2 

Bonbons for Hoarseness. 210 

Cheese 173 

How to Determine 474 

Mud 480 

Soda Powder 028 

Creams for the Face and 

Skin 225, 24a, 792 

Creosote-carbolic Acid 

Poison 94 

Cresol Emulsion 248 

Crimson Dye for Silk .....'271 

Indelible Ink 400 

Crystal Cements 248 

Crystalline Coatiners or 
Frost-work on Glass or 

PfPer 8 7 g 

Honey Pomade , 227 



Crystallization, O r n a - 

n mental ....a 0a 

Crockery 10 " 

Plaster and Meerstbau'm 

Repairing „_ 

Crocus "2 J S 

Crude Petroleum, Emul- 
sion Of goi 

Crushed Apricot 305,' 604 

Cherries 3 B5, 004 

Fruit Preserving . . , 004 

grange 36 5, '504 

£? ucn • 365, Q04 

Pineapples gea Bl) , 

Raspberry 3a 

Strawberry g B i 

Cucumber Creams -...!"" 237 
Cucumber Essence an 
Jelly, Juice, and Milk.! ^23 

Juice 930 

Milk !!. 239 

Pomade 228 

Cummins's Whipped Cream' 248 

Curacoa Cordial 734 

Liqueur '77Q 

Cure for Barber's Itch !!!486 

for Snake Bites ea 

for Tan 

for Warts 735 

Currant Cream 115 

Curry Powder 2isj 

Curtains, Coloring of ..,.446 

Cuticle Remover . . , 227 

Cutlers' Cements for Fix- 
ing Knife Blades into 

Handles is 

Cutlery Cements 16 

Cutting, Drilling, Grinding, 
and Shaping Glass . , . .371 

Cuspidor Powder 253 

Custard Powder 249 

Cyanide of Potassium 

Poison 93 

Cylinder Oil 464 

Cymbal Metal 64 

Cypress Water , .... 519 

b 

Dairy Products ...854 

Damaskeen in g 249 

by Electrolysis 249 

on Enamel Dials ......250 

Damp Walls, Coating for, 

400, 499 

Damson Cheese 176 

Dandruff Cures 388 

Dnreet Allov 64 

Dark-blue Dve ^3 

Dark Gold Purple 383 

Dark-Green Blackboard 

Paint *89 

Dark Red Grease Paint. ..229 
Snuff-Brown Dye for 

Wool 267 

Steel Dye 269 

Deadening Paint ....491 

Dead-gilding of an Alloy 

of Copper and Zinc ..579 
Dead, or Matt, Dip for 

Brass 

Deadly Nightshade Poison. 94 
Decaleomnnia Processes ..250 
Decay of Teeth, to Pre- 

vent .-W* 

Dccolorization of Carbolic 

Acid 147 

Decolorizing and Deodoriz- 
ing Oils .-A-.riai 

or Blenching Linseed CM 
Decomposition of Oils , 

Fats 

Decorating Aluminum •••• 81 



■ 



Decorative Metal *J*^ 
nishes ... m 

Red 

307 



Raspberry Syrup 
. nr Horn De- 
Deboineis or nu.u 

stroyers 



Delta Metal _ 
Dem0 t nrF ? ed Alcohol . .45. 078 



63 
Oil 



Dental Cements ^ 
F1 S^S '".'.'.251-259, 79G 
KSSSSSt for Watery 
DeodSion" of" Calcium 

Carbide ■ 
Deodorized Alcohol .....^g* 

Cod Liver Oil 2 

petroleum 



163, 251 



Deodorizing Benzine 

BBS g^a- »jg 

Depression Garden ^ 

Desilvering ■ • - ■ 

Detannatins Wine .... 
Detecting Dyed Honey 
Detection of Albumen 

Urine ■ • • ■ • • 

of Formaldehyde 

Food 

in Milk V " 

of Glucose in Food 
of Saccharine in *ood 



106 
250 



.705 
.396 
1 

. 44 
a 

.351 

.474 
,351 



.351 



of Salicylic Acid in Food. 343 

of Starch in Food .J57 

Detergent for Skin Stains. 35 
Detergents - 100 



Determination of Artiiicial 

Colors in Food asi 

of Preservatives ***S? 

Determining Cream ..... .«* 

Developers for photo - 

graphic Purposes _ 52 J 

Development of Platinum 

Prints i 

Dextrine P astes .......... 35 

Diabetics, Lemonade for . .100 

Dial Cements 

Cleaners ' 

Repairing ™' 

Diamalt *7j 

Dianiantine ™" 

Diamond Cement . . j» 

Glass Cement *a 

Tests ™l 

Diarrhoea in Birds >* J 

Remedies 

Die Venting 261 

Digestive Powders ........ 261 

Relish 213 

Diogen Developer " * i «i 

Dip for Brass • 1 5J, 

Dipping Metals, Danger of 470 

Dips 409 

for Cattle : 2D * 

Direct Coloration of Iron 
and Steel by Cupnc 

^ Selenite 368 

Directions for Bronzing. .135 
for Making Perfumes - - s \ 2 

Disinfectants 234 

Disguising Odor of Car- 
bolic Acid 1*1 



INDEX 



Dissolving Old Rubber ...622 

Distemper in Cattle 729 

Distinguishing Blue from 

Green 121 

Diuretic Bull 731 

Dog Applications 419 

Biscuit 265 

Soap 054 

Dog "Nuisance" 265 

Pets 732 

Donarite 830 

Doors, to Clean 190 

Doses for Adults and Chil- 
dren 205 

Dose Table for Veterinary 

Purposes 729 

Douche for Women 208 

Drawing Inks 403 

Paper 5°* 

Temper from Brass ....133 
Drawings, Preservation of .266 

to Clean -206 

Draw-tempering Cast Steel 687 
Dressing for Carriage 

Tops 448 

for Sewing Thread 706 

Dressings for Harness 451 

for Leather 448 

for Linoleum 459 

for the Hair 389 

Dried Casein, its Mfg 148 

Yolk of Ess 284 

Driers »™ 

Driffield Oils fj. 

Drill Chips, to Utilize ■■•■f ° 

Drilling Hard Steel €87 

Lubricant for 
Shaping, and Filing 

Glass -■ ', 37j! 

Drinking Water, Removal 

of Iron from •■■•■■■; 741 
Drinks for Summer and 

Winter J"' 

Soda Water ... . .... - • • • ■ L 

Drops of Lime in the Eye. 333 
Table of ™* 

D TBt S eVforPainti':::: 4 S 

Hot? Remedies for "J 

Sugar Preserving » flfl 

Y€*st ;;*.'.4S5 

Drying Oils ■•Vp^ ste ... 41 
Druggists' Label Paste 
Dubbing for Leatner .... 
Duesseldorff Mustard 
Dunlop Cheese 
Durable Bronze 
ners .....«•• 

Putty 

Dust-laying 
Dust Preventers 
Dutch Cleaner . 
Dutch (Holland) 

Pink Dye 
Dyeing Feathers 

Iflfor Cotton Fabrics- 

Straw Hats "...26° 

Dyes 274 

and »y e f t tuffs for ' Textile ^ 
Colors, etc., ior 2 79 



865 



Earthenware 168 

Easily Fusible Alloys .... 64 
Eastman's Sepia Paper ..581 

Eaton's Styptic 701 

Eau de Botot Water 519 

do Lais Water 519 

de Merveilleuse Water .519 

de Quinine 893 

Eberle's Whipped Cream.. 248 

Ebony 783 

Lacquer 439 

Stains 782 

Eczema Dusting Powder.. 282 

Edible Oils 355 

Effervescent Bath Tablets. 10S 
Powdera 627 

Eggs . 282, 355 

Egg Chocolate 114 

Claret US 

Coffee H5 

Crerae de Menthe Ha 

Dyes 2]5 

Lemonade ......... .111, US 

Malted Milk Coffee 11* 

Oil •■■284 

Orgeat .. "* 

Phosphate 

Powder 284 

Preserver 285 

Shell Writing Under ...788 

Shampoo «Ja 

Sherbet l« 

Sour \\% 

Wine J™ 

Egg-stain Remover f \ 

Eikonogen Developer .524 

Ektogan 

Elaine Substitute 286 

Electric InstalMions, Fus- 

^t.i_ a linns fnr ....... f"» 

...425 



on Ban- 



266, 



Cheese. 



137 
.0(17 
485 
.401 
.268 
.176 
.278 
.835 
.450 
.280 



ible Alloys for 
S^f&;"coIoring ..m 

Chromium Plating <f l > 

Electrolysis in ^e's^iM 
Electroplating and Electro-^^ 

typing ; 288 

Elm Tea . • • - • vy' .288 

Embalming. P^gfampVnff 
Embroideries & tamp, "° a3o 

Powder for u 

Embroidery, Ink for 

Embossing inK 

Emery ** 

Grinder 

astern 

Eiuulgen 

Emulsiflers . ■ • ■ ■ • • ■ 
Emulsion. Cresol 

of Bromoform "--^ ..521 
Emulsions of Petroleum ^ 



289 
...289 
. . .289 
...176 
. ..234 
...290 
...289 
...843 
. . .18* 



Dish Washing . 
Disinfectant for Books 

Disinfectants 

for Sick lloom 

Diainfectlng Coating . 

Fluids .7 

or Weed-killers 



.899 
.125 
.262 
.284 
.205 
.202 
202 



f o?Artmchd- Flowers 

for Feathers 359 

for Food "...272 

for Furs '.' 2 73, 709 

for Hats ....450 

Djrtsssr^' 1 ^i 8 4 

vy skin ,w 

Dynamite .,..•••♦* 



. .272 



Powders 202 



, , .737 
Enamel Colors . . 5 90 
for Automobiles • 
for Copper Cookius ...805 
"...227 
. .721 
189 



sels 
f or Nails 
for Vhts 

Glass ...809 

Mixing 

Removers 

Solder " 72ft 

Varnishes 



INDEX 



unified Dials, Cement 

for 20 

Iruti lietipes 305 

Enameling 200 

Alloys G7 

Enamels, Metallic Glazes 

on 173 

Unaffected by Hot Water 721 
Engines (Gasoline), Anti- 
freezing' Solution for.. 303 

English Margarine 143 

Pink Dye 278 

Weights and Measures ..758 
Engravers' Varnishes ....723 
Engraving, Matting, and 

Frosting Glass 375 

on Steel 087 

orEtdiing on Steel 687 

Spoon Handles 309 

Engravings, their Preserva- 
tion 309 

to Reduce 310 

to Transfer 710 

Enlargements 542 

Envelope Guru 43 

Epicure's Sauce 213 

Epizooty 731 

Eradicator3 205 

Erasing Powder or Pounce 189 

ence Benedictine 709 

of Anchovies 98 

of Cinnamon 312 

of Extract of Soup Herbs 212 

of Savory Spices 214, 

Essences and Extracts of 

'Fruits 310, 312 

Etching 322 

Bath for Brass 324 

for Tin 700 

Copper, Brass, and Tom- 
bac 323 

Fluids 322 

Fluid for Aluminum . . . 321 
Etching, Fluid, for Brass.. 323 
to Make Stencils . . . 323 
for Copper, Zinc, and 

Steel 324 

for Gold 324 

for Lead, Antimony, 
and Britannica 

Metal 324 

for Tin or Pewter 324 

for Zinc 32.1 

Fluids for Copper .325 

for Iron and Steel ...322 

for Silver 324 

Glass by Means of Glue. 326 
Ground for Copper En- 
graving 322 

on Copper , 324 

on Glass 325 

on ™ OI 7, 327, '42 0 

on Marblo 337 

on Steel " C g 7 

Powder for Iron "arid 

*v St &\ 33 3 

for Metals 324 

Steel, Liquids for . . ! ! ! 327 

with Wax 33a 

Eucalyptus Bonbons 212 

ta Paste 257 

Examination of Foods'!! !352 

Expectorant Mixtures . . 212 

Explosives M8 330 

exposures m Photograph- 

™g .....528 

temporaneous Anchovy 

Sauce 9 g 

Extract, Ginger-ale .'.'.!!! '.107 
Of Meat Containing Al- 
bumen q n1 

of Milk Vl{ 

Extracting Oil from ' Cot- 
tonseed 4 a2 



Extract? 312 

Coffee ....318 

Eye, Koreigu Matter in...S83 

Eyeglasses 378 

Eye Lotions 33« 

Eyes, Puftmess Under . ...fiuu 



Fabric Cleaners 191 

Fabrics, To Set Colors 212 

Fabrics, Waterproofing of. 742 

Facade Paint 499 

Face Black and Face Pow- 
der 280 

Bleach or Beautifier 231, 480 
Cream without Grease ..239 

Powder, Fatty 230 

Faded Photographs 544 

Fairthorne'S Dental Ce- 
ment 103 

Fancy Soda Drinks 113 

Fastening Cork to Metal. . SO 

Fat Reducer 482 

Fats 333, 334, 335 

Decomposition of 484 

for Soldering 659 

Fatty Acid Fermentation 

Process 334 

Face Powders 230 

Feather Bleaching and 

Coloring 121, 335 

Dyes 272, 335 

Feet. Callous Spots on ...144 

Felt Hats, To Stiffen 33G 

Fermentation, Prevention 

of 765 

Process, Fatty Acid 334 

Fcrro-argentan 71 

Ferro-prussiate Paper 539 

Ferrous-oxalate Developer 525 
Fertilizer with Organic 
Matter, for Pot 

Flowers 337 

Fertilizers ..330 

Bone ggg 

Fever in Cattle .731 

Fig Squares 216 

File Alloys C4 

Metal 64 

Files 339 

Geneva Composition ... 84 

to Clean .205, 339 

Vogel's Composition 04 

Filigree Gilding 570 

Fillers for Letters ...457 

for Wood 773 

Film-stripping !gg 3 

Filter Paper 504 

Fjlters for Water 339 

Finger-marks, to Remove 125 
Fingers, Pyrogallic - acid 

Stains on jgg 

Finger-tips, Sparks from. .01 1 
f mislimg Enamel for 

White Furniture 722 

Firearm Lubricants 4«n 

Firearms, Oil for 400 

Fire, Chain of BliJ 

Colored 'goij 

Grenades, Substitutes 



for 



. 341 



Trick "til 

Extinguishers !' - 340 

Extinguisher for Auto- 
mobiles 340 

Fireproof and Waterproof 

Paints An-i 

Coating- .!!!'* "ft'44 

Compositions ... ait 
Glue " t« 

gaint s .v;;.:: ::::«o 

Papers 3 , u 50 . 

Fireprooflng JJ}; gj* 

Celluloid , I.is9 



Fireprooflng Clothing 342 

for Wood, Straw, Tex- 
tiles ,.843 

Light Woven Fabrics . . 34a 

Matches 344 

Hope and Straw Mat- 
ting 

Stage Decorations ... 343 

T ents , !342 

Fireworks erio 

Fish Bait ;;; 3 44 

Fishing Net, Preservation 

of 223 

Fixing and Clearing Baths 535 
Agents in Perfumes ....512 

Baths for Paper 542 

Fixatives for Cravon Draw- 
ings, etc 34,4 

Flabby Flesh Bath Tonic 103 
Flabby Skin, W T ash for, 

„ , . 103, 234 

Flashlight Apparatus .....552 
Apparatus with Smoke 

Trap S52 

Flannels, Whitening of ...44a 

Flavoring Cigars 133 

Extracts 355 

Peppermint as a ....... 2S8 

Sarsaparilla ...029 

Flavorings !2i3 

for Dentrifrice .■ 255 

Spices .213 

Flea Destroyers 423 

Flesh Face Powder 243 

Flexible Ivory 42s 

Flies and Paint 501 

in the House ......... .399 

Floor Coating goo 

Dressings 344 

Oils 485 

Paper 50s 

Polish 591 

Varnishes 724 

Waterproofing 753 

Wax 754 

Flooring, Sani-Tex Compo- 
sition 345 

Florentine Bronzes 136 

Floricin Brill iantine 483 

Oil 483 

Florida Waters 514 

Flower Preservatives 345 

Flowers, Coloring for 346 

Flour and Starch Composi- 
tions 35 

Paste 39 

Fluid Measure, U. S. 

Standard .....704 

Fluid Measures 758 

Fluids, Clothes-cleaning ..192 

Disinfecting 262 

for Embalming 288 

for Soldering 65!) 

Fluorescent Liquids 347 

Flussing H;iir 401 

Fluxes for Soldering 660 

Used in Enameling .,..305 
Flux for Enameled Iron ..305 

Fly Essences 421 

Fly-papers and Fly-poisons 347 

Fly-kiHers ....421, 079 

Ply Protectives for Ani- 
mals 419 

Foam Preparations 348 

Foamy Scalp Wash 3S9 

Foreign Matter in the TCye 333 
Food Adulterants, Tests 

for 348 

Benzoic Acid in . 1(r7 

Colorants 358 

Conked in Copper Vessels 94 

Foods. Bird 120, 72!) 

for Pets 733 

for Red Birds 729 



INDEX 



867 



Foot Itch "'and' Solu 
XSSL bn "Cattle ?3° 

F Te£eS r 0 fSeed Grarn^ 
ing Tnrcelain, Glass- 



733 I Fusible Alloys for Electric 

Installations 64 

Enamel Colors 306 

Safety Alloys for Steam 

Boilers 05 

Fusion Point of Metals . .47» 



Galvanized Iron 490 

Roofing ..307 

Paper 507 

Gamboge Stain 439 

Gapes in Poultry 734 

Garancine Process .......277 

Gardens, Chemical 368 

Garment-cleaning Soap ...C45 

Gas Fixtures 180 

Bronzing of 508 

Gasoline Pumps, Packing 

for «8 

Gas Soldering 660 

Stove, to Clean 202 

Trick. • "l" 

xw'VwhiPped Cream ...-248 G Lubricant 403 

Ifagrant Naphthalene ^ ^ titl 369 



v Poster 

- "d Meerschaum 27 

- Away 



.420 



to D rive .^ tS Bees """ ..-.105 
FoU \^°folution Poison,. 93 
Fowlei s faoiuuu D[gitalis 

Fosffloy e - or ...... 94 



Poison 



Camphor 



protection from 



Frames, n^o. . t303 

Flies - . " " 1fl s 

Frame Cleaning ™* 

«s^,erSP^: 
Freezing Mixtures... .si t>, Ji« 
preventives * 

French Brandy • r: ■ • ■ "^ViSS 
Bronze, Preparation of .130 

Dentrifice g° 

Floor Polish % J * 

Gelatin • • "'ill 

' Hide Tanning Process.. 453 

Solders for Silver 664 

Varnish 
Fresh Crushed Fruits 

Frost Bite 

Preventive 



Air Bubbles in 370 

Gems, Artificial .-370 

Gem Cements ^ 
Geneva Composition Files. 64 
Genuine Silver Bronze ...140 

German Matches ...4bT 

Method of Preserving 

Meat • 3 «i 

Silver or Argentan .... w 
German-silver Solders ----|«| 
German Table Mustard ..215 
Gilders' Sheet Brass 5j 



Wax 



.493 



724 
365 
363 

363 

376 

374 

'.**. ...375 

Automobile 
364 



Removers 
Frosted Glass 

Mirrors .... 
Frosting for 
Headlights 
Frosting Polished Silver.. 640 
Fruit Essences and ■ Ex- „ in 

tracts 3io 

Frappe \]l 

Jelly Extract 81* 

Preserving 364, 004 

Products Z J. 

Syrups ?Si 

Vinegar 

Fuel . 15 2 

Fuller's Purifier for Cloths 274 
Fulminates 832 



Plating V «« 

German Silver .-"fc'.SS 

Wass 493 

in Size ••*••," — j~' * 579 
Metals, Powder for 

P;,ctpS 0 

Plating and Electrotyp-^ 

ing *i85 
Renovation or 5g0 

Steel 575 

Substitute ••• lg5 

to Clean ■ 738 

Watch Movements ... . ■ • >* 
Gilt Frames, Polish for ..joo 

^WBur.ish'::::::^ 

Ginger Ale, Flavoring 

Soluble Extract 1Q8 

Beer ...314 

Extracts 6 7 

Gold-leaf Alloys _ 383 

Striping . . - • • ■ ■ "... .727 
Gold Varnish for lin..-. 371 

GlflSSi » * •* ""***'*' $74 
Fubninating" Antimony — ^32 1 Acid-proof ■*A^*cement 28 
^ • Ill Glass and Porce^m c ^ meijt _ 5 



Glass and Porcelain 

Lubricants 372 

Manufacturing .873 

Polishes for 593 

Porcelain Repairing .... 26 
Refractory to Heat ....878 
Stop Cock Lubricant . . .462 

Stopper, to Loosen 700 

Silvering of 47B 

Solders for 6 92 

Substitute (Duro Glass) 877' 
to Affix Paper on 19 

to Cut 371 

to Fasten Brass Upon. . . 17 
to Fix Gold Letters to . . 18 
to Remove Glue from . .208 

to Silver 641 

"Waterproof Cements for 21 
Globes, How to Color ....371 

Silvering 

Glossy Paint for Bicycles. 49 5 

Gloucester Cheese 176 

Glove Cleaners 195 

Gloves, Substitute for Rub- 
ber 106 

Testing J2» 

Glaziers' Putty 607 

Glazing on Size Colors ...877 

Glaze for Bricks 377 

Glazes 

and Pottery Bodies . . . .1« 

for Cooking Vessels 37 

for Laundry 

Glucose in JeUy ....m 

Glue, Box ■ 

Chromium for Wood, 
Paper and Cloth .... 

Clarifler 

Elastic 

SrXtfelesor^MetaBlc 

or Mineral Character 1- 
for Attaching Cloth 

mrins to Iron ■■ 

tor Attaching Gloss to 

Precious Metals 

for Belts •*♦•*• lS 

for Cardboard * 

for Celluloid \ s 

SffleV^» g 
for Paper and Metal ... * $ 
for Tablets 



.37 
. l 
. 1 



Bismuth 

Copper 3 " 

Mercury 

Powder ...333 

Silver 610 

Fumigants 86 ;> 

Fumigating Candles 865 

Incubator 402 

Funnels, to Clean 204 , 

Furnace Jacket 308 

Furniture Cleaners 206 

Enamel 7 22 

Garden Furniture 868 

Polishes 592 

„Wax 764 

Puses 610 

for Electrical Circuits . • 0* 



and Glassware 90 

Balls, Amalgam for 587 

Silvering ■--••jj-'- tal 

Celluloid, ana *w 

Inks . • 

Cement for 

Cleaning •■^Yiforiir" 
Coppering, Gilding, 

Plating 

Etching 



408 
... 21 

208 

and 

..5T2 
' ..825 
25 



for Uniting Metals witn ^ 

Fabrics 

for Wood ' 10 

Manufacture 1S 

pS&K'W 

TorreventCru^^ 879 
to Fasten Linoleum J4 
Iron Stairs - r ----|g- , a 
to Form Paper P«w 4 « ^ 

Glues "** 11 

Liquid 1 3 

Waterproor ...878 

G1 ana r cUmbVrJeliy* «• 

Applications^^ ^ 237> 3S fl 



Fastening Metais u ^ 578 

Gilding • • ■ • ; ; , . . . 3U 
Grinding Iiwa - n - ttcrg 

How to Affix 18 

. on ...45 7 

Letterin 



nS a Detergent 

Creams - - ' \ 

Developer 

Lotion V; 

Milk 

process 

Soa P Milk* 'Cheese 



.040 



186 
.287 
.530 
.379 
.2S9 
.581 
652 
.178 
.379 
.482 



Goats' 

G Actd Test for . • - -//gV/lSS 
Alloys 



INDEX 



Id Amalgams .......... 89 

and Silver Bronze Pow- 
ders ... ■ 139 

Assaying of .381 

Enameling Allays 07 

Ennmel Paints 193 

Etching Fluid for 524 

Extraction of, by Amal- 
gamation 80 

foil Substitutes and Gold 

Leaf 747 

rom Acid Coloring 

Baths 381 

mitations of 433 

ndelible Ink 40(3 

nk 384, 405, 415 

ewelry, to Give a Green 

Color to 582 

~quers 440 

f and its Applica- 
tions 492 

Gold-leaf Alloys 67 

Golf-leaf Waste, to Re- 
cover 381 

Gold Lettering 456 

Letters on Glass, Ce- 
ments for Affixing .... 18 

Oil Suitable for Use 485 

Paints 492 

Gold-plate Alloys 67 

Gold Plating 575 

Printing on Oilcloth, S79 

Purple 383 

Recovery of Waste ... .381 
Reduction of Old Photo- 
graphic 535 

Renovator 199 

Solders 434, eei 

Testing .432 

Varnish 726, 727 

Ware Cleaner 200 

Welding 391 

Goldenade m 

Golden Fizz 115 

Varnishes 734 

'Golf Goblet" 'iu 

Gong Metal 54 

Grafting Was 755 



Grain 



Graining and Marbling ,' \ "247 

£°. lo ra 550 

~Tt yons ■ 247 

Of Brass jon 

with Paint 494 

Granola u 0 

Grape Glace 114 

Juice, Preservation of"'*767 
Graphite Lubricating Com- 

Gravel Walks sa « 

Gravers 

Gray Dyes *!!" 

Tints 

Grease Eradicators 
nj£f locomotive Axles' 

feSlS.^ ••III 



385 
209 
559 
205 
402 



reases 



228 
402 



Wagon and Axle" ', 482 
teen Bronze on iron ! I33 

Patma Upon Copper . '. .585 



Green Salve 480 

to Distinguish Blue from 121 

Grenades 341 

Grinder Disk Cement, Sub- 
stitute for 31 

Grinding 708 

Glass 372 

Grindstone Oil 380 

Grindstones 38G 

Ground Ceramics, Laying 

Oil for 485 

for Relief Etching 322 

Grounds for Graining 

Colors 55B 

Grosser's Washing Brick ..445 

Gruyere Cheese 17S 

Gum Arabic, Substitute, 

43, 388 

Bichromate Process . . . .510 

Drops 216 

for Envelopes 43 

Gums 386 

their Solubility in Alco- 
hol ..386 

Used in Making Varnish 71 S 
Gun Barrels, to Blue ....682 

Bronze 59 

Cotton ....831 

Lubricants ,. 4 GO 

Gunpowder 328 

Stains 387 

Gn tta-perch a 387 

Gutter Cement .....162 

Gypsum 387 

Flowers 346 

Paint for T 293 



H 



Haenkel's Bleaching Solu- 
tion 445 

Hair Cream Anti-kink ....393 

Hair-curling Liquids 389 

Hair Dressings and 

Washes 339 

Dyes 390 

Embrocation 38 0 

for Mounting 888 

Oil 300 

Oils, Perfumes for 520 

Preparations 388, 795 

Removers 259 

Restorers and Tonics, 

„ .,, 389, 391 

Setting Fluid 795 

Shampoo . 393 

Straighteners .... 395 

to Fluff 401 

Wave Fluid 700 

Hand Bleach '233 

Creams and Lotions " .232 
Hand-cleaning Paste 233 
Handkerchief Perfumes 516 
Hand Stamps, Ink for 411 
Hands, Remove Stains 

„ fr <>m i 8 4 185 

Perspiring 233 

Hard-finished Walls 409 

Hard German -silver or 

Steel Solrler .ofli 

Glaze Bricks 104 

Lead " 71 

Metal Drilling Lubricant 4GS 

Putty 607 

Sobers 6es C61 

solder for Gold mi 

wood polish ,:;:«m 

Hardened Ivory 429 

Steel, to Solder , eo5 

Hardening Plaster of 

- p £ ri ? 504 

of Springs 6a5 

Steel without Scaling ..685 



Hare-Hp Operation 0n 
Harmless Butter Color '"u? 

Colors for Use in SyrupV a|f 
Harness Dressings ...... 45a 

Grease 1 ™y 

oils . «1 

Preparations '"Ici 

Pastes ^? 

wax :::::: .las 

Hartshorn Poison 0it 

Hat cleaning Compounds "lfVr 
Hats Waterproofil, £ '.7U 

Headache Cologne .... 394 

Remedies ' 3r) t 

Head Lice in Children .' '422 
Headlights, How to Frost 364 
Heat indicating Paint ... 501 
Heat Insulation ... "',19 a 

Prickly ""'398 

Heat-resistant Lacquers . 441 

Heaves 73 J 

Hectograph Pads and 

HoA'T'i 395 > 41 8 
Hedge Mustard ....354 

Heel Polish ......633 

Hellebore Toison 94 

Helvetius's Styptic "'701 

Hemlock Poison 94 

Hemorrhoids ,5$i 

Henbane Poison . ... . 94 

Herbarium Specimens* 

Mounting 394 

Pomade 227 

Herb Vinegar .735 

Hide Bound 731 

Hide-cleaning Processes ..188 

Hides 434 

Hoarfrost Glass 375 

Hoarseness, Bonbons for.. 215 

Remedy for 211 

Holland Cheese 176 

Hollow Concrete Blocks . .891 

Silverware 640 

Home-made Outiit for 

Grinding Glass 372" 

Refrigerators 616 

Honey 398 

Clarifier 398 

Water 5l» 

Wine 408 

Honeysuckle Perfumery . .518 

Honing 761 

Hoof Sores 730 

Hop Beer 10* 

Bitter Beer 318 

Syrup 315, 395 

Hcrehound Candy . . 217 

Horn 396 

Bleaches 130 

Uniting Glass with 17 

Horns, Staining 397 

Horse Blistering 729 

Horse-colic Remedy ..... - 729 
Horse Embrocations and 

Liniments ..731 

Horses and Cattle 729 

Treatment of Diseases ..729 

Horticultural Ink 40* 

Hosiery, Dye for 268 

To Slop Runs In 397 

Hot Beef Tea , - n f 

Bouillon 11 * 

Celery Punch Hf 

Chocolate and Milk ■ ■ ■ A1 l 

Egg Bouillon I 1 * 

Chocolate HI. 1J» 

Coffee 

Drinks }\i 

Lemonade *\i 

Milk »» 

Nogg I* 8 



INDEX 



869 



lot m Orangeade _ . .UJ 
lemonades 113 

..112 
..112 



Mfllieu 



Or, 
Soda 



Todd J 



Drinks 



.111 

.113 
Dl 



Soda-water 

behold Ammonia ....^ 

Formulas 

muse Paint ... 



.804 
. 80 



a 

. .150 



,.500 

louse ^'"V; " " Metals . . .180 
i0 " v n ° Panama Hat . 137 

ft£2? and Steel 202 

Tarnished S Iver 
rAinr Aluminum 
to W£t Automobile^ 

to Gal^a^ed Koof- 397 

to' Make "Castings of In-^ 
failarSVatVr^rooKUoO 
a Plaster Cast of 
Coin or Medal . 
Picture Postal Cards 
and Photographic 
Letter Head ■ >>•" 

Simple Syrups; Hot 

Process . . l"i 

to Open a Rook ... 

opLte Labels on Tin. 40 
to Pour Out Castor Oil. 153 
to Renovate Bronzes » . -gj 
to Reproduce Old PTints.22j 
to Sensitize Photographic 

Printing Papers •••.•: 533 
to Take Care of Paint 

Brushes •••■}*" 

Castor Oil 154 

to Tell Pottery 

to Unite Rubber and ^ 

Leather ■ * £ 

to Tell the Character of 

Enamel B "* 

Huebner's Dental Cement. 163 

Himvadi Water ™ 

Huvler's Lemonade • 

Hvrlrnulic Cement 33 

Brake Fluid 126 

Hydrocyanic Acid Gas for 
Exterminating House- 
hold Insects .........418 

Hydrofluoric Formulas ...32<J 
Hydrosraphic Paper . . . -501 
Hydropen Peroxide as a 

Preservative 605 

Hygrometer and Its Use. 401 
Hydrometers and Hygro- 

scopes 402 

Hyoscyamus, Antidote to .102 



Imitation Japanese 

Bronze 188 

of Antique Silver .....B40 

I Tory ..!B9 

Platinum 14 

Silver Alloys 77 

Bronze 140 

Foil 474 

Stains for "Wood 781 

Imogen Developer 527 

Impervious Corks ........223 

Impregnation of Papers 
with Zapon Varnish.. 500 

Improved Celluloid 158 

Incandescent Lamps ....442 

Incense 860 

Incombustible Bronze Tinc- 
ture 135, 137 

Increasing the Toughness, 
Density and Tenacity 

of Aluminum 83 

Incrustation, Prevention 

of 123 

Incubator, to Fumigate... 408 
Indelible Hand - stamp 

Ink «1 

Inks 40a 

for Glass or Metal... 404 

Labels on Bottles 327 

Stencil Inks 412 

India, China or Japan Ink 400 
India-rubber Varnishes 

Indoor 'pYants", ww*<- 

for ASI 

Industrial and Potable 
Alcohol: Sources and 

Mfg. 

Infant Foods *™ 

Infants. Milk for -.■■■■■;- 4 '™ 
Inflammable Explosive with 
Chlorate of Potash . . 
Inflammability of Cellu- 
loid Reduced 
Inflammation of the Udder TBI 

Influenza in Cattle jsi 

in Horses - g9 

Ink Eradicators «j 9 

Erasers m 

for Laundry *r.a 
for Leather Finishers ..453 
for Steel Tools ...... 

f or Writing on Glass ^ 

'.417 

Luminous 404 

on Marble i - . ■ • ■ ■ ■ ' n ' gg^o? 
powders and Lozeugt 
Removing - 



.724 
.268, 281 
Compost 



.637 



.331 
.15S 



Insulation 42-5 

Against Heat 4Z6 

Mo'sture, "Weather, 

etc .426 

Intensiflers and Reducers. 55a 
International Atomic 

Weights 757 

Iodine Poison 94 

Soap ..040 

Stains, To Remove 402 

Iodoform Deodorizer . . . .427 

Iridescent Paper 504 

Iridia Perfumery' 516 

Iron ...427 

and Mnrble, Cement for 17 
and Steel, Etching 

Fluids for 322 

Polishes 587 

Powder for Harden- ■ 

ing 427 

Biting Off Red Hot 612 

Black Paint for 495 

Iron, Bronzing 587 

Castings, to Soften ....127 

Cements for 17, 25 

How to Attach Rubber 

to :-• 2» 

Pines, Rust Prevention 

for «25 

Silvcr-platmg 587 

Solders 6 ?£ 

to Cement Glass to 17 

to Clean 

to Cloth, Gluing J* 

to Color Blue .-•■•• T i-.-* 4 
to Nickleplate, by Fnc- 

tion *I 

to Whiten ••**• 

Varnishes 

Ironing Wax "1 

Irritating Plaster J|{ 

itch, Barbers' 

1V arfd Bone " Bleaches -f 

Black A g 

Cement . . . . >'i en 

Coating for Wood 5° 

Etching on Z„ 

Gilding 5 

Polishes 

Tests 



1 

Ice , 402 

Flowers 402 

Iced Coffee U* 

Iceland Moss. Cough Mix- 
ture 211 

Ideal Cosmetic Powder... 243 
limiting Composition ....403 
Imitation Black Marble . .oao 

Cider 182 

£>i Simon ds .432 

Res Shampoos ™l 

Gold 07. 488 

Foils 474 



Lozenges 
Stains, Removing 

In IrHaid St^'"'^g5 
for Shading Pen 10 

for Stamp Pads ?11 

for Typewriters u5 

Hectograph 72 4 

Inlay Varnish a , 

Maying by Electrolysis -324 

Insect BiteS i . .151 

Casting 419. 424 

Powders . ...425 

Trap V ...418 

Insecticides ..419 

for Animals r ,422 

for Plants . ■ j ng .. m 

Instructions iox ^ n 

Instrument Alloys im 

Cleaning ....4' 40 

Lacquer \ B58 

Soap ' ' Remove 
Instruments!, to 10 9 



Japan BlacK ".,,.495 

Paint ••;•••*• **... 69 

Jnpanese Alloys _ 138 

Bronze ... 76 

(Ora_y^ Silver y — ^ 

^240 
814 
.481 
.433 
. 20 
.206 
.808 
.430 
20 



Japanning - - 
Tinning • 

Extract 



Jelly 



to Clean 



gssffl 

Enamels 

Formulas ■ ■ • 

Glue Cement .... 20 f 

jewelry, to Clean 



Kalsomine 
Karats, *° 

Keeping P 1 ^ 3 
House .■• 
Kernmlcs 
Kerlt 



K 

Find ' Number 
Out" of 



a - 
. .889 
..184 
,.61» 



INDEX 



Cerosenc - cleaning Com- 
pounds 198 

SWOSene Deodorizer 484 

Emulsions 521 

Eetcluip (Adulterated) ..353 
fh.iki Color Dyeing 1 .....270 

Kid 449 

Leather Dressing-s 4-19 

Reviver 45.'! 

Kirscliner Win© Mustard. 214 

Kissing?" Salts 828 

Knife-blade Cement 16 

Knife-sharpening Paste3 ..613 

Knockenplombe 81 

Kola Cordial 7G4 

Tincture 321 

Koumiss 110 

Substitute 437 

Krems Mustard, Sour ....215 
Kreois Mustard, Sweet ..215 

Kiimmel . . 764 

Kwass 117 



S!) 
725 



Label Fastes 

Varnishes 
Labels on Tin, How to 

Paste . . 4,0 

Lac and the Art of Lac- 
quering 437 

Lace Leather 454 

to Clean Gold and 

Silver 103 

Laces, Washing and Color- 
tog' Of 448 

Lacquers 437 

Airplane Dope . .441B 

Automobile 441 A 

Bronzing Liquids 441 

Brushing Formulas 438 

Decoration of Furniture 

Novelties 4.39 

Ester Gum Solution 441A 

£ 0, . d . 441B 

Making 437 

Universal Thinners '441 

Lakes .277 

Lampblack ** 443 

Lamp Burners, to Clean" 

200, 399 

imps ..442 

..anoline Creams 933 

Hair Wash V'hn 

soap fi17 

Toilet Milk .... Ilk 

/antern Slides ". 53* 

^ard "44? 

.Mhe Lubricant ' V " aq\ 
-.audanum Poison .... ' 9* 
a-undry Blue ... 

Tablets 

Gloss Dressing .W'.'.W 

Preparations" " " ! 
Soap ... 

£2? toj?*" LaceV *; 

-airrel Water, Poison 
^avatory Deodorant " 

wS rSachets :: 

-awn Sand ' 

tld UVeS f ° r battle; "e'tV 



.443 
.444 
, .444 
.399 
.443 
.634 
.440 
. 93 



.510 
.S14 
.029 
.732 



'Application 11 
Paper" * • &8 

E^^v:::::::::S8 

-eaf Brass 8 1? 

• 54 



Leaks . . . . 440 

in Boiler3, Stopping ...008 

Leather 417 

and Rubber Cements . . 22 

as an Insulator . ...420 

Cements for 23 

Chairs, to Clean 210 

Lea ther-cleaningProcesses 180 

Leather Dyeing .450 

Lac 441 

Lubricants 400 

or Cardboard Glue .... 15 

Painting- on 455 

Polish Lacquer 441 

Removing Spots from ..200 

Plastic 455 

Varnish ..725 

Waste Insulation 426 

Waterproofing 750 

Leguminous Cheese 170 

Lemon Beer J08 

Essences 315 

Extract (Adulterated) , .IbQ 

Juice, Plain 112 

Sherbet 628 

Sour no 

Lemons 450 

Lemonade 109, 112 

for Diabetica .109 

Powder ...827 

Preparations for the 

Sick icq 

Lemonades and Sour 

Drinks no 

Lenses and their Care ...456 
Letter-head Sensitizers ..537 

Lettering 450 

a Clock Dial 737 

on Glass ; 4.57 

on Mirrors 457 

Ley Pewter 75 

Lice Killers !.'!422 

Powders '734 

Lichen Removers ...... " 4 

Licorice 45g 

T Srrup ...321 

Liebermann's Bleaching 

Test 

Light, Inactinic "154 

Li '>* c Dye for Silk 270 

Water Perfumery . $m 
Limburger Cheese . pro 

L ! me ; 33, 002 

Limeade ..no 

Lime as a Fertilizer S3 0 

Bird 4 - g 

Juice WlV'siB 

Lime-juice Cordial ""us 
Limewater for Dyers' Use 2 74 

Lincoln Cheese i 7fi 

I mcolnshiro Relish . . ' " "21 3 
Linen Bleaching ... 

Dressing ...... . \ JJJ 

to Distinguish Cotton 

j . from 24B 

Linoleum 

Cleaning and Polishing, 

r , 110 . „ „ 206, 398 

.Glue to Fasten ... 14 

Liniments "459 

for Horses "731 

Lining for Acid Reeep- 

T . tacles , 10 

Linseed Oil 34 V>9 

Adulteration of 400 

Bleaching of /. ."tig 

|>^S IS 0i f^?.:::1^ 
io e ii3 ,ng .:;.". : g* 

H po1 '.'.'.'.'.'."van 

Eipowitz Metal ei", 6S 

L;P, Pomades ^ n 

Lipsticks ; ; " 



Liqueurs ........ 

to Clarify ™8 

Liquid Bedbug Prepaid ™ 

lions , ^ 

Bottle Lae ? 21 

Bronzes ... u <> 

Cloth and Glove Cleaner 
Court Plaster . . Cr ^ 
Dentifrices .... **! 

Dye Colors ^ a 

for Bronze Powder * ill 
for Cooling Automobile 

. Engines a#.i 

Liq U1 ds for Etching Steel's^ 



■-2B5 



Liquid 

Liquid Gold 

Glues ... otJU 

Cold Solder ,JJ 

Indelible Drawing Ink 
Laundry Blue ... 4?? 
Metal Polish, Non-ex- 

plosive e QS 

Nail Enamel ..." 

Perfumes ViV " «7 £ 

Polishes ••■•on, sis 

Porcelain Cement « 

Rouge 

Shampoos "'399 

Shoe Blackings . ..* <; 3 9 

f° a P s ■ ■ :'*649 

Sty rax Soap 647 

Tar Soap 647,"<J54 

Liquor Amnion ii Anisatus 91 

Liquors TB3 

Lithia Water !!!!!*740 

Lithographic Inks ",'497 

Lacquer .....440 

_ Paper 50 5 

Liver-spot Remedies.. 841, 242 
Lobelia - Indian Poke 

Poison eg 

Locomotive Axles, Grease 

for ..462 

Lubricants 462 

Locust Killer 422 

Logwood and Indigo Blue 

Dye 268 

London Soap Powder 650 

Lotions 232-245 

T,ouse Wash 423 

Lozenges, Voice and 

Throat 219 

Lubricants 400, 4S2 

for Cutting Tools 451 

for Heavy Bearings . . . .461 
for Highspeed Bearings.. 461 

for Lathe Centers .461 

for Redrawing Shells ...463 

for Watchmakers 738 

Lulm's Washing Extract. .445 

Luminous Paints 494 

Lunar Blend 114 

Lustrous Oxide on Silver. 641 



Luster 
Lutes , 



Paste 



,464 
32 



M 

Bronze 



Machine Bronze • ■ 

Oil 460 

Machinery, to Clean, 

209, 201, S03 

to Keep it Bright 62 1 

Macht's Yellow Metal ... - 63 

Madder Lake Dye 27| 

Magic G 1 " 

Bottles I* 6 

Mirrors 

Magnesian Lemonade 

Powder 

Orgeat Powder 6 ^7 

Magnesium 

Citrate 

Flash-light Powders ... • ° s * 



INDEX 



871 



iet J? ^Ton'FiiinVs. 71 

urves o J ™ 404 

their Fi^ tl0U 

Oxide ' til 51 

Magnolia Metai M4 

Mafiogany ■ • • ■ • f Indig0 
Make Extract 2(J8 

? lue r^tUiff3 in Alum- 
Making Castings 81 

Mal leable Brass m 

Malt, Hot 859 

Malted *ood •■••■...112, 474 
Milk •*' ^2 

Of 70 

Argentan ^ 73 

CopP er 7 2 

Manganin . . | 

M , an? «i£ Preparations . .220 

of Cheese 17a 

„f riipwinK Gum ...... - A ' 0 

; 0 f Composite Paraffine 

Candles ^ 

of Glue • 

of Matches 

of Pigments . . • ■ 

Manufacturing Varnish 

Hints "837 

Manures ••••••• ■■ * ■ 223 

Manuscript Copying 

Maple ......... • ■ ■ • ■ _ 70 

iiino Liqueur 7™ 



M ar asch n ■ " ■ ? - 

Marble, Artificial 

Cements iqfi 

Cleaning i^" 

Colors 

Etching " aSa 

Painting on 

Marble, Polishing 593 

Slabs, Cement for it> 

Marbling Crayons ^ 

Paper for Books 505 

Margerine A *|> 

Marine Glue ••■ ■ Ji 

Paint to Resist Sea 

Water *$$ 

Marking Fluid 

or Labeling Inks 
Maroon Dve for Woolens. 280 

Lake Dye f 7 

Massage Application j^t 

Balls l\% 

Creams ™% 

Skin Foods 233 

Soaps 6 *' 

Mastic Lacquer 4 *J 

Mat Aluminum J*} 

Gilding 579 

Mats for Metals 

Matches 

195 



Measuring the Weight of 

Ice 402 

Meat Extract Containing 

Albumen 301 

Preservatives 359, 300 

Products (Adulterated) .357 

Medallion Metal , 62 

Medal Impressions 407 

Medals, to Clean 199 

Medical Paste 37 

Medicated Cough Drops ..217 

Massage Balls 233 

Soaps 047 

Medicinal Wines 771 

Medicine Doses 205 

Meerschaum 400 

Cements .' 80 

Repairing 27 

Mending Celluloid 1G1 

Porcelain by Riveting. .001 

Menthol Cough Drops 217 

Tooth Powder 253 

Mercury. Poison 05 

Salves ....487 

Stains, to Remove 186 

Metacarbol Developer 527 

Metal and Paper Glue ..14 
Browning by Oxidation. 583 

| Cements 25 

Cleaning 

Foil ........474 

Glass and Porcelain Ce- 

merit \l 

Inlaying 249 

Lipowitz 1° 

Polishes 0Ja 

Protectives 

Temperature of J-j>| 

Waterproof Cements for 21 
Metallic Articles, Solder- 
ing of 163 

Cement n 

GlSes on Enamels ....*JJ 
Pottery 



Luster on rouery 

Stain ; 5n7 

PaP er , ,B4B 

M ftalf and' -Their Treaty 

ening, by UiPPms ; ; 567 



Metol Developer ....624, B2B 

Mice Poison <us 

Microphotographs 550 

Milk , 354. 474 

Milk as a Substitute for 
Celluloid, Bone, and 

Ivory , 148 

Cucumber 239 

Extracts 474 

Powder for Cows ......732 

Pasteurization 475 

to Preserve 475, 606 

Minargent 04 

Mineral Acids, Poison . .. 92 

Oil 4B4 

Waters 240, 780 

Minofor Metal 1 64 

Mint Cordial 765 

Julep 114 

Mirror Alloys 72 

Mirror-lettering .457 

Mirror Polishes 59S 

Silvering 478 

Mirrors ....479 

Frosted 375 

to Clean 209 

to Prevent Dimming of .374 
Miscellaneous Tin Alloys.. 78 

Mite Killer 422 

Mixed Birdseed 120, im 

Mixers, Concrete ......... 6»t 

Mixing Castor Oil with 

Mineral Oils 484 

Mixture for Bums 
Mockingbird Food . .120, 729 

Mock Turtle Extract 212 

Modeling. Wax ....... ...755 

Modification of MUK IOT 

Infants *JJ 

Moisture 

Molding Sand 4 ™ 

Molds \ll 

of Plaster . £j£ 

MSeiieV'Cou^Dro^lT 
Mordant for Cement bur 

faces 47 o 

for Gold Size *'* 

Morphine Poison » 

Mortar Asbestos --'^'l^ 

Mosaic Gold 140, 588 

Silver •■■•i';;-^ ...42S 
Mosquitoes, Remedies .. 
Moss Kemovers . . • • • - • g5 
Moth Exterminators y 



Bronzing -• - .".21, 24 

Cements for ] 471 

Coloring • - ■ • • • • -J ' • " "32.4 
Etching Powder for . » ^ 

Fusion Point or -• •••; 
How to Attach to Rub- ^ 

her ..136 
How to Bronze M 

Securing cleaning.. 200 
Solution f or CJeanmg. ^ ^ ^ 

and Measures ...759 

"Weights 1...408 

Meth . ■ * 408 



Match Marks on Paint , ,. 

Phosphorus, Substitute Metheglm vj^ enl ne Gyp- 
for Method of PT . der ing it 




for . 

Materials ......172 

for Concrete Building 

Blocks 001 

Matrix for Medals, Coins, 

e t c 467 

Matt Etching of Copper . .323 

Matzoon *™ 

May Bowl or May Wine.. 770 

Mead 408 

Meadow Saffron Poison .. 95 

Measures 7 ", 

to Clean 20 11 



sum Ud erin |\ .V 
Weather-proof ■•• 87 8 

of Purifying ^KUariMT 
Methods g, n Jgr.....B9S 

Rubber . Posters 
Methyl Salicylate^ 

Wintergreen - -^ inon 
Mctol and 525 

Developer ■ ■ ■ • • • p eV el- 
Metol- bicarbonate ^...525 

opei* 



Motors, Anti-ireezwe ■ _ m 

lution for _ 65 4 

Mottled Soap ^9, 544 

Mountants ..•^■••- etc ...479 
Mounting Drawings. 0 

P" nts , . .... 78 

Mousset's Alwy -v- .215 

Moutarde aux Epices 2l4; 

des Jesuittes - - 99 

M ?uth Antiseptics ;'. 2S8 

Washes 259 

WaS h-toblets . ■ ^ to 

M °th%g?aph Them ...-^ 

^SrdaV^::";;;;;;;;^ 

Treams .44 

t Stick Form -j " and 
to Make , w ?^i iere to 
pasteboard Aduere ^ 

Metals ,480 

Mud Creams 

'•• 4 



INDEX 



fustncho Fixing Fluid ..480 

gttstnrd 214 

Cakes 214 

Paper 480 

Vinegar 215 

>rrh Month Wash 258 

footii Paste ..257 

N 

lad jy lis 

" iil-cleaning Washes ....227 

fail, Ingrowing 481 

Polishes 220 

Polish Remover 227 

lYarnish 227 

fame Plates, Coating for. 501 
laturnl Glue for Cement- 
ing Porcelain, Crystal 

Glass, etc 15 

Lemon Juice 31 G 

Water 730 

future, Source and Manu- 
facture of Pigments. .555 

Jeatsfoot Oil 481 

feedles, Anti-rust Paper 

for 625 I 

legatives, How to Use 

Spoiled 534 

fegro's Hair Straigrhtener. 393 

JFegro's Skin Bleach 043 

Jervine Ointment 4S7 

arve Paste .481 

Jets 223 

feufchatel Cheese 177 

feutral Tooth Powder ...255 

few Celluloid 155 

Mordant for Aniline 

Colors 273 

Production of Indigo . .281 

r iekel Alloys 76 

Bronze 70 

ickel-plating 573 

Iron, by Friction 427 

ith the Battery 573 

ickel-testing 4gi 

icket, to Clean 200 

to Remove Rust from . .109 

'lekeled Surface 580 

ickeling by Oxidation, . .587 

Test for 539 

icotine Stains, To Remove 481 

pple Ointment 4,87 

itrate of Silver Poison.. 95 

Spots 108 

itnc Acid Poison 92 

stains to Remove , . 185 

ltroglycerine 329 

on-explosive Liquid Metal 

Polish 595 

Dn-masticating Insects! . !423 
m-poisonoua Textile and 
Egg Dyes for House- 
hold Usa . . 275 

Fly-papera 347 

'on-porous Corks '224 

Jrfolk Cheese "177 

armona 1 1 * 

potty :;:::;.2so 

□teg for Potters, Glass-, 
and Brick-makers 104 

man Powder 6 2fl 

it Candy Sticks ' <z\t\ 

itmeg Essence " 31 n 

itwood Stain , " 78 s 

' Vomica Poison !615 



Leather, Stains for" \" Us5 

wood Poiikh \;\Hl 



Obesity Treatment 482 

Odorless Disinfectants ....204 

Odonter 250 

CBnantliic Ether as a Flav- 
oring for Ginger Ale. 108 

Oil, Cai-ron 242 

Castor 153 

Clock 482 

Oilcloth 45 9 

Adhesives 30 

Oil Extinguisher 341 

for Firearms 400 

Grease-, Paint-spot Erad- 

icators . 205 

How to Pour Out 153 

Lubricating 400 

Neatsfoot 481 

of Cinnamon as an An- 
tiseptic . .. . 100 

of Vitriol Poison 62 

Paintings Lacquer for.. 440 

Protection for .488 

Prints, Reproduced 223 

Removers 205 

Solidified ...461 

Stains for Hard Floors. 344 
Suitable for Use with 

Gold 485 

Oils 432 

(Edible), Tests for 355 

far Harness 451 

Purification of 335 

Oilskins .750 

Oily Bottles, to Clean ...210 

Ointments 486 

for Veterinary Purposes. 7 31 
Oleaginous Stamping 

Colors 670 

Olein Soap 654 

Oleomargarine 142 

Old-fashioned Ginger Beer.107 

Lemonade no 

Olive oil Paste . . . 148 

Onyx Cements 10 

Opium and All Its Com- 
pounds, Poison 95 

Optical Lenses, Cleaning. 208 

Orangeade no 

Orange Bitters and 

Cordial 702, 704 

Drops 21G 

Dye 271 

Extract 31(5 

Flower Water 520 

Frappe no 

Peel, Soluble Extract ..310 

Phosphate 112 

Ordinary Drab Dye sal 

Green Glass for Dis- 
pensing Bottles 373 

Negative Varnish 544 

Ore'ide (French Gold) ... 68 

Orgeat Punch no 

Ornamental Designs on 
Silver 547 

Ornaments of Iron, Black- 
ening 4Q5 

Orris and Rose Mouth 
Wash 258 

Ortol Developer 527 

Ox-gnll Soap for Cleansing 
< 6iUc 654 

Oxide. Magnetic B25 

of Chrome '172 

Of Tin 17 2 

of Zinc Poison 97 

Oxidized Steel 534 

Oxidizing jgj> 

Processes !s81 

Ozonatin* 44 



P 

Package Pop 1(vr 

wax 

Packing for Gasoline 

Pumps 183 

for Stuffing Boxes ^48$ 

Packings 48g 

gads of Paper Vss/soa 

Pain-subduing- Ointment. ..437 

Paint, Acid-resisting j 0 

Bases ""439 

Brashes 4B0 

at Rest ltl 

Cleaning .!'.140 

Deadening 491 

Dryers 4™ 

for Bathtubs 5Q i 

for Blackboards 4g9 

for Copper . ; 495 

for Iron 495 

for Protecting Cement 

Agiinst Acid g 

for Tires "50^ 

Grease ] 229 

Peeling of [\ 5n 

Removed from Clothes.. 102 

Removers \gj 

to Prevent Crawling" of .*490 
Varnish, 'and Enamel 

Removers ^g? 

Painters' Putty "go7 

Painting on Leather ....455 

on Marble 433 

on Muslin 433 

Ornaments or Letters on 
Cloth and Paper ...,48B 

Over Fresh Cement 499 

Processes iss 

Paintinsrs 4Rfl 

to Clean 195 

Paints 439, a 02 

Dry Base for 489 

for Gold and Gilding.. 493 

for Metal Surfaces 4S5 

for Roofs and Roof 

Paper .;.497 

for Walls of Cement, 
Plaster, Hard Finish, 

etc 498 

for Wood 500 

Stains, etc., for Ships... 198 
Waterproof and 

Weatherproof 499 

Pale Purple Gold 383 

Pale-yellow Soap 652 

Palladium Alloys 73 

Bearing Metal 73 

Gold 69 

Silver Alloy 73 

PalladinmizFng 583 

Palms, their Care ..503 

Panama Hat, How to 

Clean 187 

Paper 503 

and Met.nl Glue 14 

(Anti-rust) for Needles. 625 
as Protection for Iron. .625 

Blotting 503 

Box Glue 15 

Celloirlin 504 

Cements 21 

Disinfectant 203 

Fireproof 344 

Floor Covering 506 

Frosted ....371 

Paperhungers' Pastes SB 

Paper Hygrometers 402 

Making, Blue Print ...53<3 

on Glass, to Affix I 9 

Pads 503 




P F Ph %a W Proce SS e S ...536 
JjSSW Fastening to 

Gla ss i""*.725 

Varnishes • • • ■ • • • 50 g 7 51 
Waterproofing ..... * m 

Papers, \S»f ne \ ' m *. .502 

Fara fnne 50S 

Scented WKCh - B45 

Paraffining of ™™ _. 502 

parchment ana * * 2J 

Cement ... 37 

Paste ••■■*■ " 5G1 

Paris Green r)[)t) 

Eed " 264 

S ^ S V^ment ".....••• 30 

liquet Floors, Benovat^ 
.' 591 

paste, Agar-agar g7 

Albumen 90 

Antiseptic 38 

PaScard'cVmenV':::::. SI 

P^Scor'PUabie:: S 
ft?Afflxin B aothtoMetal 8T 
for Cleaning G^ss .....208 
for Fastening Leather to 

Desk Tops, etc. . . 

forMaking Paper Boxes Vj 

for Parchment Paper ...87 
for Removing Old Faint 

or Varnish Coats 1»» 

for Tissue Paper «7 

for Wall Paper jj 

Sk Ur to" Write" Vitl'i 

Water 4 ^ 

Permanent ■■>••••• «2 

that will not Mold »* 

Venetian %i 

85 
39 
595 



Pastes 
f or Paperhangers 
far Polishing Metals 



for Silvering . • s ? 



Directions for Making,, 512 

Fumigating .306 

for Hair Oils 520 

for Soap 048 

Permanent Waving Fluid. Tfla 
Peroxide of Hydrogen, 

to make 521 

Perpetual Ink 404 

Perspiration Remedy ....233 

Perspiring Hands 238 

Petrifying Wooden Objects 606 
Petrolatum Cold Cream., 226 

Petroleum 521 

Briquettes 522 

Emulsion 423 

for Spinning 522 

Hair Washes 390 

Jellies and Solidified 

Lubricants 461 

Soap 048 

Pewter T5 

Aging S22 

to Clean 205 

Phosphate Dental Cement 163 
of Casein and its Pro- 
duction 143 

Phosphor Bronze 58 

Photographers' Ointment. .487 

Photographs 554 

Phosphorus Poison ... 96, 014 
Photographic Developing 

Papers BZ "[ 

Mountants 

Photographing on Silk. ...540 
Photographs Enlarged ...542 

on Brooches 5 f 

Transparent '™ soa 

Photography. *23, *f 

witnout Light to? 

Piano Polishes 598 

Piccalilli Sauce f | 

Pickle for Brass «| 

for Bronze *a2i 

for Copper 

for Dipping Brass 

Brass like Gold. 132 

bef °. r . e 805 



39 
.475 



to Affix Labels to Tin 
Pasteurization of Milk 
Pasting Celluloid on Wood 86 
Paper Signs on Metal . - 3" 
Wood and Cardboard on 

Metal , 37 

Pattern Letters and 

Figures, Alloys for .. 80 
Paving Brick, Stain for ..166 

Patent Leather iS \ 

Leather Dressings 440 

Polish 6 H 

Preserver 

Stains for *g? 

Patina of Art Bronzes ..584 
Oxidizing Processes - 

Patinas ■• 

Peach Extract 

Tint Rouge 231 

Pearls, to Clean 208 

Peeling of Paints 501 

Pegamoid 50 -J 

Pencils. Antiseptic 90 

„ for Marking Glass 874 

Pen Metal 74 

Pens, Gold 383 

Peppermint as a Flavor. .252 

Pepsin Phosnhato I 12 , 

Percentage Solution, 509, 704 
Perfumer! Ammonia Water 91 
Fumigating Pastilles . -B07 
Pastilles 520 



.584 
.584 
. .817 



522 
540 
555 
561 
392 
, 69 
,817 
.110 
.320 



Pickling Brass 
Iron Scrap 

Enameling . . 

of German-silver *™' m 

cles "453 

Process 2 14 

Spice . .. • «.••■/•*•* .186 

picric Acid Stains s32 

Picture Copying - £37 

Postal Cards 251 

Transferrer 

Pictures, Glow ••' 

Pigment Paper 

Pi-merits " 

Lemonade • 

Pine Syrup a r'uf f 
Pine-tar D a n Q ..bbu 

Shampoo . .-■ ;...110 

Pins-pong Frappe 787 

P ink n Caffl Z ed"SaniW fl3 

Powder . ■ ■ ■ • .042 

Color on Silver sn 

pye for Cotton ; an 

for Wool . .731 

p«ea^;«* :: ::::S 

Purple Gold ...487 

saive ess 



Wheels . 

Pipe-joint Cement !l82 

Pipe Leaks 445 

to Color a Meerschaum. 468 
Pipes, Rust-preventive for 025 

Pistachio Essence .317 

Plain Rubber Cemeat .... 34 

Plant Fertilizers saa 

Preservatives A 845 

Parasites 501 

Plaster 501 

Articles. Repairing of . . 27 

Cast of Coins' 150 

Casts, Preservation of, 505 
for Foundry Models ...594 
from Spent Gas Lime ..594 

Grease 463 

Irritating 438 

Model Lubricant 463 

Mold 152, 564 

Objects, Cleaning of. ...564 
of Paris, Hardening, 

32, 150, 564 

Repairing 27 

Plastic Alloys 64 

and Elastic Composi- 
tion 150 

Metal Composition ...... 65 

Paint 502 

"Wood 565 

Polishing Paste 600 

Platina, Birmingham 55 

Plate Glass, Removing 

Putty 

Pewter vv,;*V 75 

Plates, Care of Photo- 
graphic 5 *» 

for Engraving ..... 71 

Platine for Dress Buttons 80 

Plating v-'Vn'-A--- 565 

Gilding and Electro- 

typing. |88 

of Aluminum 

Platinizing 

Aluminum 

Copper and Brass 

Platinotype Paper 

velopmenc ^ 

Silver " fl <j5 

$K to"Sep a Vate Sil- e4i 

ver from 26 4 

Pla ^ 9 D . C Car r ds to 'Clean: .209 
P,av,n * C Cards,To Var-^ 



.530 
73 



Flaying 
Playing 



nish ...181 
Plumbers* Cement ..... m 

Spots from »fl 

?SouI y Fi^:; :: : 8 S; 

PoTo»dot^"fbT Q ,.. e |l 



F *V:«; : v-i::::SJ 
;;.,«« 

. , .509 



per, etc. • ■ 



INDEX 



Polishes for Glass 593 

for Ivory, Bone, etc ...SOS 

for Pianos S9C 

for Silverware GOG 

for Steel and Iron 597 

for Hie Laundry M l 

for Wood . 598 

or Glazes for Laundry- 
Work .444 

Polishing Agent 5f)9 

Bricks GOO 

Cloths, to Prepare 509 

Creara COO 

Mediums 600 

Pastes 595 

for the Nails 227 

Powders 501 

Soaps 59 1 

olychroming of Figures. 501 

omade, Putz 203 

omades 227, 392 

Colors for 228 

for the Lips 223 

omegranate Essence ....317 

oppy Oil 431 

-seed Oil, Bleaching 1 of. 459 

orcelain goi 

How to Tell Pottery ...173 
Letters, Cement for ... 19 
Production of Luster 

Colors ,172 

Stains, To Remove 002 

ortland Cement 102 

ositive Colors 550 

ostal Cards, How to 

Make 537 

How to Make Sensitized 539 
otassium Amalgams, Ap- 
plications of 80 

Silicate as a Cement ... 19 

otato Starch 680 

ottery 173 

and Porcelain, How to 

Tell 173 

Bodies and Glazes 1C7 

Metallic Luster on 173 

to Cut ie4 

oultry Applications 419 

FoDdg and Poultry Dis- 
eases and Their Reme- 
dies , 733 

Lice Destroyer "410 

»nc» ' 189 

owdered Camphor in Per- 

nianent Form 144 

Cork as a Preservative. 606 

Nail Polishes 226 

owder, Blasting ;j 80 

J-ace , .242, 243, 701 

ror Cleaning Glove3 105 

for Colored Fire3 ... 009 

for Gilding Metals 579 

for Hardening iron 427 

Roup ' 734 

to Keep Moths Awav ' 425 
to Weld Wrought ir"on 
S;K|J Heat with 
Wrought Iron .. 7A1 
owdem for Stamping WW an 
for the Toilet . V±l 
reservation and Use" of 

ofSsr 1« 

ofcarpet 3 \n 

o?g^ ines •"»:"! 

Of Pag 2 84 

ofPru1r l V mon Jui ^ "5 
ur truit Juices ni* 

of Meats 

of Milk * ?59 

^piaster c^ite 



Preservation of Syrups ...701 
of Wood 776 

of Yeast 736 

Preservative Fluid for Mu- 
seums 002 

for Stuffed Animals ...002 

Preservatives 002 

Preservatives, for Leather 452 

Prairie Oyster 116 

Preparation of Amalgams 8 5 

of Brick Colors 165 

of Ca rbol i n emu 147 

of Catgut Sutures ......155 

of Celluloid 158 

of Emulsions of Crude 

retroleum 521 

of Enamels 308 

of French Bronze 136 

of Syrups 702 

of Uninflammable Cellu- 
loid 157 

Preparations of Copper 

Water 221 

Prepared Mustards of 

Commerce 214 

Preparing Bone for Fer- 
tilizer 338 

Preparing Emery for Lap- 
ping 289 

Preservative* for Stone ...002 
Preservatives for Paste., 38 

for Shoe Soles nss 

for Zoological and Ana- 
tomical Specimens ...602 
Preserved Strawberries . .605 

Preserving Antiques 08 

Preserving Eggs 285 

Eggs with Lime 285 

Mea,t, a G d r 111 a n 

Method SGi 

Pressure Table 704 

Preventing the Peeling of 

Coatings for Iron 427 

the Putrefaction of 

Strong Glues 11 

Varnish from Crawling. 717 
Prevent Decay to Teeth.. 705 
Prevention of Boiler Scale 122 

of Electrolysis 123 

of Fermentation 765 

of Foaming and Partial 
Caramelization of Fruit 

Juices , 311 

of Fogging, Dimming 

and Clouding 374 

Prickly Heat, Applications 

, for . 398 

Priming Coat for Water 

_ Spots 501 

Iron 493 

Print Copying '222 

Printing Ink, Savages . . ,409 

Inks .408 

Oilcloth and Leather in 

Gold 370 

on Celluloid lei 

on Photographs !s5l 

Printing-out Paper, How 

> to Sensitize 530 

Printing - roller Composi- 
tions 617 

Prints, their Preservation '. 30 9 
Process for Colored Glazes 165 
for Dyeing in Khaki 

Colors 275 

of Electroplating ..WW. 286 
of Impregnating Fabrics 

with Celluloid 101 

Production of Consistent 

Mineral Oils 434 

of Lampblack ....... 441 

of Luster Colors on Por- 
celain and Glazed Pot- 
tery 172 



Production of Minar- 

gent « 4 

of Rainbow Colors oa 

Metals 5fia 

of Substances Resembling 

Celluloid 158 

Properties of Amalgams] ' 85 
of Concrete Blocks 

Strength ' 695 

Protecting Boiler Plated 

from Scale 12 o 

Cement against Acid"" 9 
fa luffed Furniture from 

Moths 

Protection for Ceme ji t 

. Work 16a 

for Oil Paintings . . 400 
Protection of Acetylene 

Apparatus from Frost 363 
Protective Coating for 

Bright Iron Articles. .496 
Puffin ess under Eyes . 606 

Prussia Acid ' 93 

Pumice Stone ." 606 

Pumice-stone Soap , WW ' 6-18 
Pumillo Toilet Vinegar .'244 

Punch, Claret i l2 

Puncture Cement ""162 

Purification of Benzine "'l06 

Purifying-air 44 

Purifying Oils and Fats.. 335 

Rancid Castor Oil 153 

Water 740 

Purple and Violet Dyes ..269 

-Dye 269 

for Cotton 279 

far Silk 270 

Ink ....41B 

of Cassius 383 

Putty cos 

Acid-proof c<)7 

for Attaching Sign-let- 
ters to Glass 19 

for Celluloid .....161 

Nose 230 

Substitute for 60S 

to Remove ,206 
Powder, To Make. .... .608 

Pyrocatechin Developer ..528 
PyrogalHe Acid Stains ..185 
Pyrotechnics 008, 610 



Quadruple Extract Per- 
fumery 518 

Quince Extract S17 

Flip 115 

Quick Dryer for Inks Used 
on Bookbinders' Cases. 4 10 

Quick-drying Enamel 
Colors 722 

Quick -water 68 

Quilts, to Clean 194 

R 

Radiator Caps, to Cement 613 

Compound (Auto) 613 

Raspberry Essences 313 

Lemonade .110 

Sour H8 

Syrup 317, 318 

Rat Poisons 06, 613 

Ratsbane Poison 9 3 

Ravigotte Mustard 2 15 

Razor Paper 503 

Pastes 509, 615 

Recipes for Cold-stirred 

Toilet Soaps 653 

Recipes for Colored Peo- 
ple 393, 643 

for Pottery and Brick 

Work 1W 

for Soldering "<> 5 



INDEX 



875 



Re« 



S° P ?? oi 'Tin, andiron 



Sid Birds, IV 00 ^^ • ; .221 
E Cblorms .^/ffi Dyes.270 
Crimson and i 271 

Dye for G02 

Furniture Paste ••■ cg1 

Gold Enamel 22£) 

Grease I Jint . m 

Indelible Inks ___ 41C 

Ink 5815 

Patina . • . ■y amisU ,i \ n 
Russia Leauiei C15 

Reducer foi^Vtin Dry- 
^late Negatives :::;; .535 



Removing Window Frost.. 870 

Woody Odor a»8 

Rendering Parafnne Trans- 
parent 507 

Renovating a Camera ...553 

Wax Figures 750 

Old Parquet Floors 845 

Renovation of Polished 
Surfaces of Wood, 

etc 107 

Repairing Broken Glass . . 20 

Hectographs 396 

Rubber Goods 620 

Replacing Rubies -whose 
Settings have Deteri- 
orated 736 

Replathig 588 

with Battery 573 

Reproduction of Plaster 

Originals 535 

Resilvering 

of Mirrors 476 

Restoring Photographs ...544 



Reducers "u- 542 Restoring rnoragrapua 

Reducing Photographs . . .0*- Tarn isW Gold ..... ...196 

Refining Linseed OH ™* | i^^tlcm of Brass Arti- 



330 

Reflector weuat J J 

Refrigerants \..m 

iSfSaSS, Home-made.616 

linking Typewriter Rib-^ 

Relief Etching of c °PP er '„ 9 „ 

Steel, and Brass |2J 

Ground for - 

of Zinc ||| 

Remedies" "againsi- "Human 

Parasites * 

Mosquitoes 

for Dry Rot gj 

for Fetid Breath "J 

for Insect Bites 

Removable Binding . - .- - - l« 
Removal of AniUne-d>e 
Stains from the Skin. 184 

of Corns . ■ • • •• ^ R 

of Dirt from Parafiine ..508 
of Heat Stains from 
Polished Wood .......773 

of Iron from Drinking | 

-Water "41 

of Mustv Taste and 

Smell from Wine . .. .771 
of Odors from Wooden 
Boxes. Chests, Draw- 
ee etc 3? 

of Paint, from Clothing.. 193 
of Peruvian -balsam 

Stains : 

of Picric-aeid Stains is« 

of Rust ld J 

Removing Acid Stains .. .184 
and Preventing Match 

Marks 

Egg Stains 201 

Glaze from B m e r y 

Wheels 289 

Grease Spot's from Plush W 

Inground Dirt •?|5 

Ink Stains r ..Wg 

Iron Rust from Muslm.l'JJ 
Odor from Pasteboard.. 800 
Oil Spots from Leather. 2 06 
Oil Stains from Marble. 107 

Old Wall Paper +00 

Paint fTOm Wood 188 

Silver Stains 200 

Spots from Furniture . .2U« 
the Gum of Sticky Fly- 

paper B *° 

Varnish, etc l aa 



13' 
309 



.432 
. 64 
.460 
.180 
.306 
.711 
. 38 
.4«0 
.666 



Restoration of Brass 

cles 

of Old Prints 
Restoration of Spoiled 

Beer y^'. 

of the Color of Tur 

quoises 

Retz Alloy 

Revolver Lubricants 

Rhubarb for Cholera. .. 
Ribbon, Fumigating .. . . • 
Ribbons for Typewriters 

Rice Paste ■ 

Rifle Lubricants ....... ■ 

Ring, How to Solder .. 
Rings on Metal, Producing 

Colored ^ 

Riveting China ..... •■•••^ 
Roach Exterminators, 425, mw 

Rock-candy Syrup ™ 

Rockets 171 

Rockingham Glazes ™ 

Rodinal Developer - . - 
Roller Compositions for 

printers " m 

Roman Candles Q1J 

Roof P^ mt rf 9 t .- 1 T'av"*;''.39'' 
Roofs, How to k»T 8nlf 
Prevention of LeaKa B e 

Room Deodorizer ■ QJ 

Rope Lubricants _ S17 

Ropes •■• 753 

Waterproonng 17T 

Roquefort Cheese 

Rose's Alloy . .765 ! 

Rose Cordial ..115 

Cream ■ -, z.~r' " , . . .652 

Rose-Glycerine Soa| .. 

Rosemary Water _ gg0 

Hair . . .115 

Rose Mint ....278 

Pink Dye ....227 

Pomade . - • ■ ■ • ■ p o ;vder.2i3 

Poudro de Riz ro ...230 

powders ...5io 

Talc ...871 

Rose.tint Class ...«8 

Rosewood 783 

Ro S £ n Sh"eUac;--and ^ 
Soap m asVn-Emulsifler. ; g 

Sticks • - • ■ • ' jCfcracts. ■ - a58 

Tests fo r ;,™B e a u * y .*A 
Rottmanner s » e 244 

Water 0 V 8> 2 29, 230 

S Paris Red ■•••///.. .230 
palettes 



Rouge Powder eoo 

Tablets 230 

Theater 231 

Roup Cures 734 

Royai Frapp6 114 

Mist lis 

Rubber si 8 

and Rubber Articles . . .620 

Wood Fastened 22 

Boots and Shoe Cement, 23 

Cement for Cloth 24 

Cements 22, 34 

Gloves, Substitute for. . .100 

Testing 622 

Goods, Repairing 620 

Its Properties and Uses 

in Waterproofing 748 

Scraps, Treatment of ..631 

Softening ..621 

Stamps 622 

Varnishes 724 

Ruby Settings 737 

Rules for Varnishing . . . -717 

Rum, Bay 104 

Ruoltz Metnl 64 

Russet Leather Dressing. . 449 

Russian Leather ....454 

Polishing Lac .*ll 

Rust Paints 

Paper .6^ 

Rust, Prevention for Iron 

Pipes ; - 6 

Preventive for Tools, 



etc. 



.02 



Removers 193, 19 

Preventives 

Rusty Pieces, to Separate- 



Saccharine in Food 

Sachet Powders . „ 

Safety in Explosives jjj B 

pSioV"MaW:::::};j 



in 



Food 



.258 
.349 
.654 



.526 
.623 
.629 
.483 
.628 
. .150 



Sage Cheese 

Salicyl, Sweet 

Salicylic Acid 

Soap • • • • • • ' •' V e 0 f 

Saltpeter (Nitrate ^ 

potash) 

Salts, Effervescent 

Smelling 

Salt, Uses for 

Salve 

Sand . .... „" 

Hales in Brass .. 150 
jn Cast-brass wor* ^ 
Sand-lime BricK fl54 
Sand Soap 'V' Adhesion of 

to sL r rtf 4& s 

Sandstone Cements J0 
Coating • v,VcAifs from 198 

Sanl-Tex Fioo""" ..345 
sitlon ■■ + n nth'FasteS.257 
Saponaceous Tooth r ^ 

Sarsaparilla 118 

Beer 



Tablo 



358 



l^^tte 'Color -•• • ■ v; " " " ; 4 o9 
I S Printing Ink 9 g 

&aviiB^ nnlenn 

' '.!l2<* 
"..8S8 
' .653 



^ vil J°/for°Je W Wlers 
Sawdust for J 

sSn B BlueDye -. for 
* duction 



INDEX 



c in Boilers 122 

Insects, Extermination 

of 423 

on Orange Trees . . . . 423 

Cleaner 205 

les and Tables 547 

Wash ass 

let Lake Dyes 277 

Ih Lac Dyo 271 

iffmann's Asthma Pow- 
der 101 

Scirsors Hardening: CSS 

Scotch Beer 118 

Sera tell Brushing: 570 

Screws , ...G20 

Bluing 082 

in Watches 738 

Sealing (Burning) Trick., on 

Waxes 755 

Sea, Sickness 030 

Seasoning's 213 

Seed, Bird 120 

Seidlitz Salt ...028 

Self-igniting Mantles 405 

Seltzer and Lemon 11 0 

Lemonade 110 

Water 740 

Separating Silver from 

Platinum Waste 641 

Serpents, Pharaoh's S30 

Serviettes Magiques 59 fi 

Setting of Tools ....70s 

the Paint-brush Bristles. 141 

Sewer Gas eso 

Sewing Thread, Dressing 

for 70S 

Shades of Red, etc., on 

Matt Gold Bijouterie .431 
Shading Pen, Ink for .,..416 
Shampoo Lotions and 

Pastes 392, 303 

Soap 653 

Sharpening Pastes 500 

Stones 7fli 

Shaving Paste 'eso 

Soaps 6 , 19 

Sheep 734 

Sheet Brass 51 

Sheet-dips , " ' 2Si 

Sheet Metal Alloy . .' .* 71 

Lubricant 40,3 

Shellac " '71 0 

™^{f filing ;; G31 

bbell Cameos .030 

Imitation of " '429 

Polishes !* 593 

Shells, Lubricants f o r Re- 

ck t r; i w l? e *S8 

Sherbet, Egg 11 3 

£cl lns En S ine Brasses.'.' 031 
Who Liao" 32 

Ship Compositions ' and 

Paints 4.g 3 

Shoe Dressings 531 

Leather Dressing ../.'/45ft 

bb °f\ Blacking for B31 

Waterproofing 1*0 
Show Bottles . 127 

Show-case Signs 457 

Show Cases 335 

to Prevent Dimming' of '. 374 
Siberian Flip . . li s 

Siccatives ... ii? 
Sign Letters 2gX 
Sign-letter Cements i 8 
Signs on Show Cases "'417 
fil ? Repair Enameled 304 
Silicate of Oxychlorlde 
Cements > r 

iiik° n Exon * e ' ■ • 01 

paing*;;::;: -III 

Sensitizers for Photo- 
grapbic Purposes 540 



Silver ....689 

Alloys 75 

Amalgam 88, CO 

Bromide Paper, Toning 

Baths for 641 

Bronze 71 

Silver-coin Cleaner 200 

Silver, Copper, Nickel, and 

Zinc Alloys 70 

Etching Fluid for 324 

Fizz 115 

Foil Substitute 474 

Gray- Dye for Straw ...269 

Stain 783 

Imitation 77 

Ink 884, 416 

Nitrate Spots, to Re- 
move 194 

Test for Cottonseed 

Oil 482 

Ornamental Designs on. on 

Silver-plating 574, 587 

Silver Plating Powder 642 

Solder for Enameling. .424 

for Plated Metal 434 

Solders 663 

for Soldering Iron, 
Steel, Cast Iron, and 

Copper 603 

Testing ..642 

to Clean 204 

to Color Pink 643 

to Recover Gold from. . .382 
Silvering by Oxidation ...583 

Bronze 587 

Copper 587 

Glass Balls, Amalgam 

for so 

Glubes 641 

Globes 470 

of Mirrors 470 

Powder for Metals 642 

Silver-plating, and De- 
silvering 587 

Test for e-12 

Silverware Cleaner ..... ,200 

Polishes 596 

Wrapping Paper for ..506 

Silver-zinc 75 

Similor , " t , 03 

Simple Coloring of Bronze 

Powder 134 

Test for Red Lead and 

Orange Lead .446 

Way to Clean a Clock. 207 
Smews, Treatment of . 11 1 

Sinks, to Clean 202 

Size Over Portland Ce- 
ment g] 

Sizing ....... 38 

Walls for Kalsomi'ne.'!.'."436 
Skin Bleaches, Balms, etc, 

„ . 234, 613 

Chapped 232 

Skm-Blcach for Negroes,. 543 
i>km - cleaning P r e p a r a- 

c , . t'ons 184 

bkin Cream 239 

Discoloration ... '235 

foods 281,5114 

Motion 234 

Ointments ' " " 4g 7 

Troubles "iua 

siate .;; Ill 

Dye for Silk 'ggg 

for Straw Hats 200 

Parchment 500 

gltfles for Lanterns ..532, 643 
Mipcoat or Soft Cheese ..177 

Slugs on Roses 423 

Smaragdine "45 

Smelling Salts 81*0**628 

bmokeless- Powder S20 

Vari-colored Fire ... 609 



Smut, Treatment for , 304 

Snake Bites „e, 043 

Soap, Benzoin e 52 

Suap-bubbJe Liquids 655 

Soap, Coloring 1S4.1 

Flakes ""ess 

for Surgical Instruments '053 
for Garment Cleaning e45 

Perfumes >520 

Polishes 59 , 

Powder, Borax C49" 650 

Substitutes 

c Tooth 

Soaps qa, 

and Pastes for Gloves "195 
for Clothing and Fabrics 191 
Soda, Coffee Cream 

Water "'lit 

Soda-water Fountain 

Drinks 

Sodium, Amalgams, Appli- 
es 



cations of 



Salts, Effervescent . . . . 627 
Silicate as a Cement'"' i& 
Soft Enamels for Iron, 

White '305 

German-silver Solder ...mi 

Glaze Brick 105 

Gold Solder , '434 

Metal Castings ....... 

Silver Solders '55* 

Soldering Paste '.667 

Solder , g6l 

Toilet Soaps .652 

Softening Celluloid 10a 

Rubber . .621 

Steel 687 

Solder, Copper 659 

for Articles which will 
not Bear a High Tem- 
perature 005 

for Brass Tubes 359 

for Fastening Brass to 

Tin 659 

for Gold 434 

for Iron , 665 

for Silver Chains 664 

for Silver-plated Work ..664 

for Silversmiths 664 

from Gold, to Remove .383 

Soldering, Acids 656 

a Ring Containing a 

Jewel 436, 886 

Block 637 

Soldering, Concealed 005 

of Metallic Articles 656 

of Metals 655 

Fluxes for 660 

Paste ,...667 

Powder for Steel 0G5 

Recipes 085 

Solution for Steel 005 

without Heat 606 

Solders ...655 

for Glass 662 

for Gold 434 

for Jewelers 136 

for Silver 434 

Solid Alcohol 45 

Cleansing Compound ...209 

Linseed Oil 483 

Solidifieu Lubricants ....462 

Soluble Blue 443 

Essence of Ginger 314 

Extract of Ginger Ale ..108 
Glass, Bronzing with . -1 3 £ 

Gun Cotton . 333 

Solution for Removing Ni- 
trate of Silver Spots -19* 
Solutions for Batteries . -- 10 * 
for Cleaning Metals •♦■gW 

Percentage • ■ ■ "„* 

Solvent for Iron Rust ...fjl 
Soot Removers 00 ' 



INDEX 



877 



608 
256 



SOUP JT'of"' Potable Al- 

s° ur Soi 

Sozodpnt ■ • ■ • ■ " p irew orks 600 
|SrV S m e the Finger^ 



Tips 

Cordial • ?3 2 



.011 
. .457 
. .730 



Spavin 
Spearmint 



Spear for BricKs.ior 

Ifjflc Gravity. Test 



Metal 



Compote. 



Sponpes 
as Filters 



73 
CO.*) 
214 
358 
213 
678 
78-1 
02 
611 



Speculum f 

Spice foi 1 

Ja? A g duiteVated 

Sp £rFlavoring_ : ... Vc - oVi 

ftSteO* Salts Poison.. 
Spints Vp,. i( ,k piazing .. 

Sponge r iick, ■ » Q7S ) 

"Window Display • 073 

!^33D 

* "jt * " 67Q 

Sterilization of 21Q 

Spot S Stain Removers.185 

Sp^t 1 ?* on' Photographic 

Plates 730 

Sprai n Washes ;; 7 103 
Sprav Solution 

% n \ShS UI * '.v.::::: ess 

Spring of batches «7 

to Clean • • ■ ; " 

Sprinkling Powders for 
Flics » »■*•**■ ■• - * * *■ * rt 

ture 

Squill Poisons 

Stage Decorations, 

proofing 

Stain, Brick -■ 

for Blue Paving Bricks. 106 
Stain-removing Soaps •••■^ 

Stained Ceilings 

Staining Horns 

Stains 

for Lacquers 

for Oak Leather 

for Patent Leather £j2 

for Wood •■• 7S1 

Attacked by Alkalies 

or Acids W> 

Stamping ........^ 

Colors for Use with Bub- 

ber Stamps n7J 

Stamping Liquids and 

Powders ■.'■■Sift 

Powder for Embroideries 680 
Starch 445, 680 



.013 



Fire- 



in Jelly, Tests for ... 

Luster 

Paste 

Powder 

Starch-producing Plants 

Statuary Bronze 

Statue Cleaning 

Statuettes, Cleaning of 

of Linowitz Metal 
Steam Cylinder Lubricant. 40 i 

Steel 881 

Alloys "J 1 

for Drawing Colors on 80 
for Locomotive Cyl- 
inders Jll 

, and Iron Polishes 597 

Blue and Old Silver on 

Brass 18° 

Bluing 082 

...... 01 



Steel, Browning of .......682 

Cleaner iB9 

Coloring osa 

Distinguishinglronfrom 427 
Dust as a Polishing 

Agent 000 

Etching 323 

on 087 

Fragments 087 

Steel-hardening Powder . .427 

Steel, Oxidized 584 

Paint for 497 

Plating 575 

Polishes 597 

Soldering 1 065 

Stainless . PR7 

to Clean .199 

Tools, to Put an Edge 

on 680 

Wire Hardening 684 

Stencil Inks 411 

Marking Ink that will 

Wash Out 300 

Stencils for Plotting Let- 
ters of Sign Plates ..200 

Stereochromy 689 

Stereopticon Slides 532 

Stereotype Metal 77 

Sterilization of Sponges . .679 
of Water with Lime 

Chloride 741 

Sterling Silver 434 

Stick Pomade 228 

Sticky Fly-papers 347 

Fly Preparations *^ 

Stilton Cheese ... 
Stone, Artificial . 

Cements 

Cleaning 
preservative for 
Stones for Sharpening^^ ^ 

(Precious), Imitation of 370 

Stoneware . ■ ■ „» 

and Glass Cements .... f 
Waterproof Cements for 21 
Stopper Lubricants . M 700 
Store Windows, to Clean. 209 

Stove, Blacking ; " ie s 

Cement jj03 

Cleaners 44J 

Lacquer V 9 V 70 o 

Polish 597, J 2Y 

Varnishes . ■ • ; _■ • y f or ! l 02 
Stramonium, Antidote ^ 

Strap L u ^' ca p res 'erved "..605 
Strawberries, PreserveQ ^ 

Strawberry Essence glg 

Juice I...227 

Pomade 120 

Straw. Blenching y uB 

Fireprooflng ■ • ■ ■ • • ■ 187 
Straw-hat Cleaners •♦; • * > 7fl p 



.177 
.688 
. 10 
.196 
.602 



Substitute for Benzine . . .108 
for Camphor in the 
Preparation of Cellu- 
loid and Applicable to 

Other Purposes 157 

for Cement on Grinder 

Disks 81 

for Cork 224 

for Fire Grenades 341 

for Gum Arabic 388 

for Putty 698 

for Rubber Gloves .100 

for Soldering Fluid 059 

Substitutes for Coffee . . , .210 

for German Silver 70 

for Wood 785 

Suffolk Cheese 177 

Sugar-producing Plants ..668 
Sulphate of Zinc Poison. . 97 

Stains, to Remove 186 

Sulphuric Acid Poison ... 92 

Summer Driuk 118 

Taffy 217 

Sun Bronze 61 

Cholera Mixture 179 

Sunburn Remedies — 240, 241 
Sunflower-glycerine Soap.. 653 
Superfatted Liquid Lano- 
lin-glycerine Soap . . . 647 

Sutures of Catgut 155 

Sweeping Compound 701 

Sympathetic Inks 412 

Syndeticon • 

Syrup of Bromoform 134 

(Raspberry) 8VJ 

Table ^vlli 

Syrups sai « Vi l 

Szegedin Soap 615 



.857 
.399 
. 35 
.081 
..668 
. 57 
.197 
.564 
.. 64 



Table" of Drops - • *™ 

1 h U o C w in g " SjwW^ 
on Ground Glass of 
Objects in Motion . 

Top, Acid-proof j 

Tables " 5i <j 

and Scales 547 

for Photographers « 

Tablet Enameling ■•*+^"i7Q 

Glue for ; 2l7 

Taffy ••vAVNi; 164 

Tailor's CaalK _ 243 

Talc Powder ■■ 'i.,243 

Talcum Powder ...83* 

Tallow "... . 69 

Talmi. Gold ■ ■ • e t e 
Tamping of c 0 n c r . . 6 95 
Freckle' Lotion ..2*1 
T \Vd nd RuBSet Shoe e3g 
polishes 



Stripping Gilt Aruae ^ 

Photograph ™* . M 39 
Strong Adhesive F^-fJ; ^ 
Cement 223 



705 

Tank •••„•■' lil' I - 'ijve for. 447 
Tanned Leather, uye 458 

Tanning \] 454 

ffirS^araV.-^;^ 

Twine . •V.'nmV* V..- 86 Tar C^^^tor Oil -, 153 

Strontium Amalgams ;;: __ 6i 5 Tasteless Castor Rem(jva , 



Stropping Pf^ Vomica 96 
Strvchnine or mux * ,...614 

Poisons • p re - 
Stuffed Animals. ^ <002 

Styp^astV of <^ 0l 

fayP percha ?01 

Styptics ■■■• T T*ed" for Oe- 



.678 



Tattoo Mark 3 
of 

ffi^ract 
Hot 



705 
. .448 
..819 
..118 

Ten -Me ^c^wder...^ 
colored 



ape Metal , 71 

nperature for Brushes. 140 

* Metal 152 

of Water for Tlants 561 

Tempered Copper 221 

Tempering Brass 132 

Termites, To Prevent 101 

Terra Cotta Cleaning ....187 

Substitute 70S 

Test for Glue 10 

Testing Nickel 481 

Rubber Gloves 022 

Siccatives G37 

Silver 642 

Steel 087 

Tests for Absolute. Alcohol 45 
for Aniline in Pigments. 560 

for Cotton 245 

for Lubricants 463 

for Radio Transformer. .706 

Textile Cleaning — 191 

Theater Rouse 2 31 

The Burning Banana .,..611 
Gum-bichromate Photo- 
printing Process 546 

Preservation of Books ..124 
Prevention of the In- 
flammability of Ben- 
zine 108 

Therapeutic Grouping of 
Medicinal Plasters , . .561 

Thermometers 706 

Thread 706 

Three-color Process 548 

Throat Lozenges 218 

Thymol 100 

Ticks, Cattle Dip for 419 

Tiers-Argent Alloy 75 

Tiieroakers' Notes 164 

Tin 40, 70s 

Alloys 77 

Amalgams, Applications 

° f 87 

Ash 173 

Bismuth, and Magnesium 40 

Bronzing 

Chloride of Tin, Poison. 97 
Tinctures for Perfumes ..513 
Tin, Etching Fluid for ...324 

Tinfoil 707 

Tin Foils for Capsules .""474 
for Wrapping Cheese. 474 

tin m Powder Form 707 

Tin-lead , 77 

Alloys . ] 7g 

Hnned Surface ...'.'."..""589 

inning '" 5a4 

by Oxidation ' '53,! 

£ ? Iatin S by Electric 



Bath 



575 

of Lead Sao 

Tinseled Letters or Chi- 
nese Painting on 

Glass ° 4 ea 

Tin Silver-Plating' ""IS 
Solders 7,21 

Statuettes, Buttons,* etc. 78 

Varnishes 

T|PPmg Gold Pens ."."."S 

cements":;:;;;:;; ? 3 

Tire Paint ... J? 
Tissier's Metal *«\ 
Tissue Paper, Paste 'foi" 
rtain whether 



1 jssue Paper, Paste' for 37 
To Ascertain whether an 
ffi 13 „ Nickeled, 
Attach ec k or Silvered . '.589 



Gold^L'eaf ' PcVrnV 41 
nently rerma- 

Tobir, Bronze 4 ™ 



INDEX 



Tobacco Poison 97 

To Bronze Copper 130 

Burnish Gilt Work 364 

Caseharden Locally . ...681 

Cist Yellow Brass 51 

Cement Glass to Iron ..17 

Clarify Liqueurs 770 

Solutions of Gelatin, 

Glues, etc 370 

Turbid Orange Flower 

Water 512 

Clean a Gas Stove 202 

Aluminum 204 

Articles of Nickel 201 

Brushes of Dry Paint. 188 

Colored Leather 180 

Dull Gold 204 

Files 205 

Fire-gilt Articles 185 

Furs J?G8 

Gilt Frames, etc 185 

Gilt Objects 203 

Gold and Silver Lace. 193 
Gummed Parts of Ma- 
chinery 203 

Gummed-up Springs ..207 

Jet Jewelry 431 

Lacquered Goods ....195 

Leather Chairs 210 

Linoleum 206 

Milk Glass 209 

Mirrors 209 

Oily Bottles 210 

Old Medals 190 

Painted Walls 1D0 

Paintings 195 

Petroleum Lamp Burn- 
ers 200 

Playing Cards 209 

Polished Parts of Ma- 
chines 201 

Quilts 194 

Silver Ornaments ....201 
Skins Used for Polish- 
ing Purposes 186 

Soldered Watch Cases. 207 

Sponges 210 

Store Windows 209 

Tarnished Zinc 205 

the Tops of Clocks in 

Repairing 20 

Tongue 708 

Toilet Bowls 210 

Very Soiled Hands ..185 

Watch Chains 20G 

Waste Pipes 21 0 

Windshields 210 

Wool 273 

Zinc Articles 203 

Coat Brass Articles with 

Antimony Colors 581 

Color a Meerschaum 

Pi.Pe 469 

Billiard Balls Red ...42a 

DronzO jgg 

Gutter :.:::;35s> 

Cheese ggg 

Gold ; , ; ; ' 

Iron Blue *427 

Ivory ' 4 i, s 

Conceal Soldering .'ees 
Copper Aluminum ... 581 
Copy Old Letters, etc... 223 

Cut Castile Soap 644 

Glass 37I 

Cut Glass under Water. 372 

Pottery lfl4 

Toddy, Hot Soda 112 

To Detect Artificial Va- 
nillin in Vanilla Ex- 



.713 



tracts 

the Presence" of" Ani- 
line in a Pigment.. 500 



To Detect Tonka in Va- 
nilla Extract 71 » 

Determine the Covering- 

Power of Pigments 
Dissolve Copper from 
Gold Articles 38a 

Distinguish Cotton from 

Linen . 24fl 

Genuine Diamonds "geo 
Glue and Other Adhe- 

sives 

Iron from Steel . 'A* 
Steel from Iron . '^t. 

Do Away with Wiping 
Dishes b ,„ a 

Drain a Refrigerator" " m l 

Drill Optical Glass .. 373 

Dye Copper Parts Vio- 
let and Orange . 221 
Cotton Dark Brown' " 

Feathers » R , 

Felt Goods ".'"28I 

Silk a Delicate Green- 
ish Yellow 280 

Silk Peacock Blue .'"^si 
Stiffen and Bleach Felt 

Hats 273 

Woolen Yarns, etc 
Various Shades of 

Magenta 280 

Woolens with Blue de 
Lyons .280 

Eat Burning Coals 612 

Estimate Contents of a 
Circular Tank . 705 

Extinct Oil Spots from 

Finished Goods 273 

Shellac from Fur 

„ Hats 394 

Fasten Brass upon Glass 17 
Paper Tickets to Glass 19 
Rubber to Wood .... 23 

Fill Engraved Letters on 
Metal Signs 457 

Find the Number of 
Carats 432 

Fire Paper, etc., by 
Breathing on it . Gil 

Fix Alcoholic Lacquers 
on Metallic Surfaces. .440 
Dyes 274 

Gold Letters, etc., 

upon Glass 18 

Paper upon Polished 

Metal 07 

Iron in Stone 162 

Fuse Gold Dust 384 

Give a Brown Color to 

Brass 130 

a Green Color to Gold 

Jewelry 582 

Brass a Golden Color. 577 
Dark Inks a Bronze or 
Changeable Hue ...409 

Grind Glass 372 

Harden a Hammer 684 

Hard-solder Parts For- 
merly Soldered with 

Tin Solder 

Impart the Aroma and 
Taste of Natural But- 

ter to Margarine 1 43 

Improve Deadened Brass 

Parts I 33 

Increase the Toughness, 
Density, and Tenacity 

of Aluminum °° 

Toilet Bowl, to Clean. 210, 70S 

Toilet Creams 235, 792 

Milks 2 39 

Powders ■ 2^2 

Preparations 225. 792 



■ 



INDEX 



G50 

Toilet Soaps ......... M4 

7 Vinegar 9 ...214, 518 

-Waters „ .,..888 
To Keep K wree from 
1 Flaxseed 1 424, 

? ugS from" "F r esh , 
plies . flom 501 

Ice 111 hI11 ...402 

„ tj® f't' Liquid 
India -l^i- W ork- 

^aS Movement 

Tombac Color o. u .10G 
1° r&»* B St*e Cor- 738 

for Glass ....<•••• lg0 



impermeable 



10 
382 
372 



Cider 

C °aad k Acid ; proof . 
TTat Oil Gold Size . 
Holes in Thin Glass 
£S5 Nails in Walls 39g 

PlS^AdlieretoMeiai 500 
Matt Gilt Articles -■■■■'}g| 

Mend Grindstones S86 

Wedgwood Mortars . . 29 
Tonic for Flabby Flesh ..103 

Tongue, to Clean ]f 

Toning Baths • 

for Silver Bromide 

Paper *M 

Black Inks 

Tonka Extract 
Its Detection m \anina 

Extracts 

Tool Lubricant f l 

Setting fig 5 

; Tools, Rust Prevention . .625 

Toothache 509 ' ™" 

Tooth Cements .••■vrV 

Paste to be put in Col- 
lapsible Tubes •257 

Pastes, Powders, and „„ 1 

"Washes 

Powder for Children . .2*5 
Powders and Pastes . 

Soaps and Pastes 25; 

Straightening 

To Overcame Odors in 
Freshly Prepared 

Rooms ■■c Am 

Paint Wrought Iron with 

Graphite ;- 406 

Paste Paper on Smooth 

Iron 61 

Pickle Black Iron-plate 
Scrap Before Enamel- 

ing . 805 

Polish Delicate Objects.. 599 
Paintings on Wood . -B00 
Prepare Polishing Cloths 599 

Preserve Beef B0 ,o 

Furs s ™ 

Milk «W 

Steel from Rust .... .189 
Prevent Crawling of 

Paints 490 

Dimming of Eye- 
glasses, etc s ™ 

Glue from Cracking . ■ 10 
Screws from Rusting 
id Becoming Fast. 629 



To Prevent Smoke from 

Flashlight 552 

the Adhesion of Model- 
ing Sand to Cast- 
ings ISO 

the Trickling of Burn- 
ing Candleg 145 

Wood Warping 731 

Wooden Vessels from 

Leaking 446 

Produce Fine Leaves of 

Metal 473 

Protect Papered Walls 

from Vermin 401 

Zinc Roofing from 

Rust «2S 

Purify Bismuth i 

Put an Edge on Steel 

Tools 085 

Quickly Remove a Ring 
from a Swollen 

Finger 4,31 

Reblack Clock Hands . .788 
Recognize Whether an 

Article is Gilt 383 

Recover Gold-leaf Waste 381 
Reduce Engravings . ...310 
Reduce Photographs .-..548 
Refine Board Sweepings. 432 
Remedy Worn Pinions 

in Watches 7dB 

Remove a Name from a 

Dial ■; 

Aniline Stams ..... 
from Ceilings, etc. ..190 

Balsam Stains 19* 

Black Letters, from 
White 
Signs ; 
Burnt Oil from 

ened Steel . . - ■ ■ ■ • ■ ■ ' 
Enamel and 1 m 

Marks from 

etc 1SB 

..208 



879 

To Remove Stains of Sul- 

Phate_ 188 

Metal by 



.207 
.185 



Enameled 
Hard- 



.639 



.188 



.18 



Finger 
Books, 

SBSSS silver ....382 
§°r d ea f sT Spots from 
Marble oi-ViiV 

Oil-pamt Spots * ruui 209 
oSafnt' 'Spots- 'from 

Sandstones 189 

rnd Enamel Wi.V 

Old Oil, Paint, or Var- 
nish Coats .. . • ■ • ■ : 
Paint, Varmsh, etc.. 
from Wood 

Putty, Jf r ^rias9 ..20 6 
1 from, F ate Glassy- 

pvro Stains from ^ s&5 
Fingers ;..* ' V Ink" ' • - 190 

from iron u ^ e 



Strains in 

Heating . 
Varnish from Metal.. 188 
Vegetable Growth from 

Buildings 200 

Water Stains from 

Varnished Furniture 1B8 
Vaseline Stains from 

Clothing ig2 

Render Aniline Colors 
Soluble in Water . . . ,274 
Fine Cracks in Tools 

Visible ...,688 

Gum Arabic More Ad- 
hesive 43 

Negatives Permanent .553 
Pale Gold Darker ...383 
Shrunken Wooden 

Casks Watertight ..149 
Window Panes 

Opaque 875 

Renew Old Silks 274 

Renovate and Brighten 
Russet and Yellow 

Shoes 633 

Brick Walls 190 

Old Oil Paintings . ..488 

Straw Hats .187 

Repair a Dial, etc., with 
Enamel Applied Cold, 
a Repeating Clock- 
bell 

Enameled Signs B0 

Meerschaum Pipes ... 46 
Restore Brushes ■"•v«l*l 
Patent Leather Dash. 452 
Restore Reddened Car- 
bolic Acid •■■■••:;-:; 1 * 7 
the Color of a Gold or 

Gilt Dial If 

Burnt Steel 685 

Tortoise-shell Polishes ....593 
To Scale Cast Iron . 
Scent Advertising Mat 

ter 

Separate Rusty Pieces 
Silver Brass, 1 

GlarBailVand Plate^ 

Silve?plate'Me^''^:-588 

Soften Glaziers' P^--Jj; 

Horn . ■ • ; 427 

Iron Castings 6g 

Old Whitewash . • - 
Solder a Piece of Ha^^ 

in iroll , AI , 
pipes **? 



Rust 
sils 



203 



.737 



.204 

.510 
.625 



58T 



SUB " • * \VS*fra1 1D0, i»» 

Rust from Nickel, 482 

Reduce Fat .629 
Save Coal • ■ ,20a 

Sl White Fabrics ^ , 
Soft Solder from ^ 208 
gSK fr f°rom D Tracfng i93 

StSnffromiie'H-^ ^ 



ened Steel 
Stop Leakage. 

Ho t-Water P^ rier ll8 

Sweeten ^"""tiLd in 
Take BoilmB Leaa ....61S 

tbe Moutn . ■ - ■ ■ 
Te il Genuine Meer^ 

schaum ^""Coil o 
Temper »mft" 688 
Spr 4 n fr a ct of Ueorice.4S8 
Test Extract °i SyTU p9 
Fruit Juices a _ 8 2l 

for Anilme g 
Fruit Juices for » wl 

licylic Acid ■ • ■ lt 
the Color *o See u ^ 

S*,«*»" : :::::« 



Weaken ft Balnnce 

Spring 788 

hiton Flannels 440 

Iron 427 

Widen ft Jewel Hole ...431 
Tracing-cloth Cleaners ...19V 
Tracing Cloth, Removing 

Spots from 192 

Tracing, How to Clean ..104 

Taper y 50 .?, 

Tragacanth. Mucilage or. . 42 
Transferring Photos to 
Watch Cases and Dials 555 

Transfer Processes 710 

Transparencies 70U 

Transparent Candles 145 

Brick Glaze 107 

Ground Glass ■ 373 

Photographs 545 

Soaps ™z 

Trays, Varnish for 727 

Trapping Rabbits ...710 

Treatment and Utilization 

of Rubber Scraps 821 

of Bunions 221 

of Carbolic-acid Burns ..147 
of Cast-iron Grave 

Crosses 202 

of Corns -.225 

of Damp Walls 400 

of Fresh Plaster 504 

of Newly Laid Linoleum.459 

of the Grindstone 386 

Tricks with Fire • -COS 

Triple Extract Perfumery 518 

Pewter 7£ 

Tubs: to Render Shrunken 

Tubs Water-tight 14!) 

Turmeric in Food 352 

Turpentine Stains 784 

Turquoises, Restoration of 

the Color of 432 

Turtle (Mock) Extract . .212 

Twine : 711 

Strong 223 

Two - solution Ink Re- 
mover 189 

Type Metal 78 

Typewriter Ribbon Inks ..413 
Ribbons 711 



u 

Udder Inflammation 731 

Unclassified Allays 80 

Dyers' Recipes 273 

Unclean Lenses 456 

Uninflammable Celluloid. ..157 
United States Weights and 

Measures 75s 

Uniting Glass with Horn. 17 
Rubber and Leather ... 22 

Universal Cement 31 

Cleaner 209 

Urine, Detection of Albu- 
men .... 44 
Uses for Salt 029 

Utensils, Capacities of 703 

to Remove Rust 10s 

Utilization of Waste Ma- 
terial or By-products. 878 

V 

Valves m 

Vanilla I" 

Substitute 

Vanillin .... lit 
Vanishing Cream**: ; '. . [ . '. 'Am 

S? mad « 228 

v^fcn^r.?.::::;^ 



Varnish and Paint Re- 
in over 188 

Jtonkbinricrs' 720 

Brushes at Rest 141 

for Bicycles 719 

for Blackboards 720 

for Floors 724, 72SB 

for Trays and Tinware. 727 
Gums Used in Making.. 715 

How to Pour Out 153 

Making, Linseed Oil for 483 
Manufacturing Hints ..715 

Removers 187 

Substitutes 727 

Varnished Paper 500 

Varnishes ......543, 714-728B 

Engravers' 723 

Insulating 420 

Photographic Retouch- 
ing 543 

Varnishing, Rules for ...717 
Vat Enamels and Var- 
nishes 721 

Vegetable Acids, Poison . . C2 

Vegetables, Canned 852 

Vehicle for Oil Colors ...SCO 

Venetian Paste 39 

Vermilion Grease Paint.. 229 

Vermin Killer 422 

Very Hard Silver Solder. GCS 
Veterinary Dose Table ..729 

Formulas 728 

Vichy 740 

Salt .028 

Violet Ammonia .244, 245 

Color for Ammonia .... 91 

Cream 115 

Dye for Silk or Wool.. 270 
for Straw Bonnets . .270 

Flavor for Candy 217 

Ink 417 

Poudre de Riz Powder. 242 

Sachet 510 

Smelling Salts 510 

Talc 510 

Powder 248 

Tooth Powder ,.,252 

Water 520 

Witch Hazel , 245 

Vinaigre Rouge 244 

Vinegar 358, 734 

Toilet 244 

Viscose 159 

Vogel's Composition Files. R4 

Voice Lozenges 219 

Vulcanization of Rubber,. 822 

w 

Wagon and Axle Greases. 462 

Wall Cleaners 190 

Wall-paper Dyes 273 

Removal of 400 

Wall-paper Paste , 39 

Wall Priming 501 

Waterproofing 741 

Walls, Damp 400 

Hard-finished .499 

Walnut ,783 

Warming Bottle [127 

Warping, Prevention of. ..781 

warts 73(s 

Washes. Nail-cleaning ...227 

Washing Blanket9 390 

Brushes 141 

Fluids and Powders ...445 

of Light Silk Goods 0SD 

Waste, Photographic, Its 

Disposition ..534 

Waste Pipes, to Clean .,.210 

Watch Case Photo 555 

Watch Chains, to Clean .,20(1 

Watch-dial Cements 20 

Watch Gilding 733 



Watch-lid Cement .... 9( . 

Watchmakers' Alloys ' " Vtr 
and Jewelers* Cleaning 

Preparations 

Formulas ^ 

nil ' iia 

WJl 

Watch Manufacturers' '&U 

_ l°ys r < tt 

Movements, Palladium 

Plating of 5a „ 

Waterproof and Acid- 
proof Pastes ... 3f , 
Cements for Glass 
Stoneware, and Mctai 21 

Coatings 

Glues is 

Harness Composition 45*1 

Ink '«» 

Paints Al 

? a pe™ 

Pities m 

ROpeS 

Shoe Dressings 034 

Stiffening for Straw Hats' ' 187 
Varnish for Beach Shoes 531 

Wood 753 

"Waterproofing .'."tit 

Blue Prints \ "."74J 

Brick Arches '..".* ".741 

Canvas '743 

Cellars Y.'.'.'.m 

Corks 742 

Fabrics 743 

Leather " ] "75^ 

Paper * [ [ftji 

Water- and Acid-resisting 

Paint 499 

Water closets, Deodorants 

far 263, 70s 

Water, Copper 221 

Filters for 339 

Water-glass Cements 19 

Water Glass in Stereo- 
chromatic Painting . .C88 
Jackets, Anti - freezing 

Solutions for 383 

Natural and Artificial . .739 
Purification. Alum Proc- 
ess of 340 

Spots, Priming for 501 

Stains 784 

Water Stirred Yellow, 
Scarlet and Colorless. .012 

Water-tight Casks 149 

Glass 373 

Roofs 373 

"Water Tone" Platinum 

Paper 529 

to Freeze 618 

Varnish ...544 

Waters, Toilet 244 

Wax 753 

Burning, Trick eil 

Wax Fisriire Renovating. .758 

for Bottles 55 8 

for Ironing 444 

for Linoleum 459 

Paper 505 

Waxes for Floors, Furni- 
ture, etc 754 

Weather Forecasters ....756 

Weatherp roofing 493 

Casts SBa 

Weed Killers 101, 2^8 

Weights and Measures . - 7 ;> 7 

of Eggs 284 

Weiss Beer J J 2 

Welding Compound 8a7 

Powder to Weld Steel 
on Wrousrht Iron at 

Palc-rcd Heat ... £°J 

Powders 

Westphnlinn Cheese )il 

Wheel Crease " J 



■■■■■I 
INDEX 



Wine Color Dye 270 

Wines and Liquors 762 

Medicinal 771 

Removal of Musty 

Taste 771 

Winter Beverages ill 

Wintergreen, to Distinguish 
Methyl Salicylate from 

Oil of 486, 771 

Wire Hardening 084 

Hope 771 

Witch-hazel Creams 288 | 

JellV 228 

Violet 245 

Wood m 

Acid-prauf 9 

Cements 2Q 

Chlorine-proofing 9 

Fillers 773 

Fireproofing 842 

Wooden Gears 463 

Wood Gilding .580 

Wood Objects to Petrify.. ooo 

Polishes 598 

Pulp, Fireproofing 343 

Ren ovators ........ 1 94, 1 9 7 

Securing Metals to 37 

Stain for 781 

Substitutes for 

Warping, to Prevent ..781 

Waterproofing 73* 

Wood's Metal ........ »* 

Woodwork, Cleaning ....194 

W"0Ol qjj ,.......••«« .488 

Silk or Straw Bleachmg.120 

to Clean . . 2 ™ 

Woorara Poison »' 

"Worcestershire Sauce ... -213 
Working of Sheet Alumi- ^ 

Worm "powder' foV ' Stock 732 
Wrapping Paper 

verwars 

Wrinkles, Removal of 



.761 



.jetstones S47l 248 

rhipped Cream 55 

fp6 Brass 164 

Cosm ciiq^ • 243 

Face lo«« containing 
Flint Oiass ^ gF?3 

^ L niture" Enamcl"for..722 
jpurniturt;, ordinary 
Gl^ss ™L n " ....373 
Molded Bot * 167 
Glazes •■***:'* ^r it i lou t 

White-froW llates 384 

Solder . . - -U'LTf- 229 

?h ite Grease Faints 

Ink ■■ 78 

Petroleum Jelly ■ 

Portland Cement lb- 
Rose Perfumery { | 

ch„c Dressing b * J 

gger for Silver JW 

^Sbrfee^-:::::^ 

Vitriol, Poison Vj 

Whitewash , 90 

j-r 8 

wllS^hRcruedies 211 
Wild-cherry Balsam 

Extract 

Wiltshire Cheese 
Window - cleaning 

pound 

Window Display 

Panes, Cleaning ... 
Opaque, to Render 

Perfume 

Polishes fJ. 

Windows, Frosted .-•■•ri'jSS 
to Prevent Dimming of. 370 
Windshield Cleaner *w 



.103 
.321 
.177 



C O 111- 



203 
702 
208 
375 



881 



Writing on Zinc 405 

Restoring Faded 786 

Writing under Shell of 
Egg .78ft 



Yama n fi 

Yeast 78 ft 

and Fertilizers , 839 

Yellow Coloring for Bev- 
erages 119 

Dye for Cotton 371 

for Silk 271 

Hard Solders 958 

Ink 417 

Orange and Bronze Dyes 271 

Stain for Wood 784 

Ylang-Ylang Perfume ...518 
Yolk of Egg as an Emul- 

sifier 290 

York Cheese , 177 



Zapon 728 

for Impregnating Paper. 508 

Varnishes 728 

Zinc & 

Alloys ■••vr 80 

Amalgam for Electric 

Batteries......... 

for Dentists' Zinc ...163 
Amalgams, Applications 



of 



87 



.50S 



231, 233 

Writing Inks Vtfj/SJ 

on Glass m 

on Ivory, Glass, etc ...*":> ' 



Articles, Bronzing 136 

to Clean 

Bronzing ....137, » 

Contact Silver-plating . 

Etching 

Gilding 

Zinc-Nickel ' 

Zinc-Ointment 
Zinc Plates, Coppering . 

poison 

to Clean 



.589 
.323 
.580 
. 80 
,487 
.578 
. 97 
.205 



SUPPLEMENTARY INDEX TO RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 



Acid-proof Coatings 787 

Agricultural Insecticides . . 737 
Automobile Cleaner 787 

E 

Bath Salts 787 

Bleaching 788 

Hemp 788 

Silk 788 

Wool 788 



Casein 788 

Adhcsivcs , - • -788 

Paints and Varnishes. . .780 
Paper and Textile Sizes. 780 
Pharmaceutical and 

Food 789 

' Plastics 789 

Preparation 788 

"Synthetic Wool" 780 

Uses of 788 

Cellophane Adhesive 7!>« 

Cements 798 



798 

China 70s 

ESSSr^SK :. « 

Concrete Paint * 7 92-707 

Cosmetics . 793 

Astringents 793 

Cooling 793 

Lotion , 793 

Blackstick .792 

Cold Creams T93 

Mentholated. 7S > 2 

Lemon ■ - • - • , .'.794 

Cologne Water 79-1 

Compacts ■ ...792 

Creams - . ■ ^Wburn' 792 

Tan and Sunburn 7Q3 

Vanishing .793 

Cleansing , .70(5 

Dentifrices .: • Vi 'aner. -797 
False Teeth Cleane 
iodide Mouth Wasi • . 

Mouth Wasli 797 

Tartar Remover .. 79T 

Tooth Paste 707 

Tooth Powder 



Tooth Wash ^ 

Filce Bleach ■•^■•;;:;; 797 

Facial Clay Facie 794 

Face powders m 

Colors for .. 79l 

Sun Tan 797 

Freckle Remover < . 

Hair preparations ^ 

8$52afc:::S 

Eau de Q uin ":, 79<5 

Tint for Biir>« 

^cX* ****** 
tion .795 
Hair Bleach T O j- on ..790 

Hair Wajto6-Jg%.«ft 
permanent ^ ^ 795 



SnilS Sri Hantine . ■ 
!£y-cSb Prepara- 



tion 



.796 
.795 



HverSot rrc P araUon:.79T 



metics (Cant.) 

otlous 783 

Kor Perspiring- ...... 79S 

Frost Bite 793 

Red Nose 703 

Sunburn 793 

licure Preparations. .79'1 

Cuticle Remover 794 

K.iil Bleach 795 

Nail Enamel 794 

Nail Polish (Paste) .. .795 
Nail Polish (Pow- 
dered) 70S 

ail Softener 795 

nple Preparation ....797 



Deodorizing Kerosene ....798 

Dry Cleaning 798 

Dustproofing Tennis 

Courts ....799 



tching Paste 790 



Floor Dressing- for Mar- 
ble 799 



Javelle Water 799 

L 

acquer Formulations . . .800 

Baking Enamels 800 

Benzyl and Ethyl Cel- * 

Julose 800 

Cellulose Acetate .... 800 
Chlorinated Diphenyl.800 

Plasticizerg ...801 

Polymerized Acrylic 

Compounds 801 

Solvents 801 

M 

oth Repellent 855 

N 

aphtheuate Driers 855 

Nerve Desensitizer 855 

o 

ven Cleaner 355 

P 

a ,* nts 802-805 

Commercial Putty 805 

Dust Color for floors. '.'.'.80i 

House Paints .... g 0 2 

Lacquer Type Dressing. so 5 

KnS*. and Grinding . .802 
Uil Stains .... B05 

Preparation of Mixed! '. 
iyed Barn .... sn , 
Remover ,. 

Sss?* y.y.y.::ttt 

Top Dressing ™\ 

Touch up suck : ::::: 1o 

Varnish and Oil Enam- 
Varnlsh Remover 



Water Stains 805 

Photography 806 850 

Buyers of Photos 842 

Chemical Dictionary . 844-850 
Chemistry of Intensifica- 
tion and Reduction. . .820 
Blackening- Bleached 

Negative 822 

Intensification 821 

Mercury Type Formu- 
las 822 

Reduction 820 

Sodium Sulphite An- 
hydrous 823 

Colored Photography ...827 

Copyright Rights 839 

Cracked Prints, How to 

Copy 837 

Defects in Photographic 

Work B0 6 

Blistering 808 

Chemical Fog 808 

Different Kinds of 

Stains 800 

Double Exposures . . . .808 
Fine Scratches or 

Lines 807 

Fixing Bath 803 

Fog 808 

Frilling 803 

Hot Weather Trou- 
bles 803 

Local and Direct Fog. SOS 

Mottling 808 

Removing Hypo from 

Negative 806 

Removing Perinaga- 

nate Stains , .807 

Silvery White Opales- 
cence 806 

Small Dark Spots 807 

Small Transparent 

Holes 807 

Spots in Negatives. .. .807 
Spots of Angular 

Shape 807 

Yellowish. White Opal- 
escence 806 

Yellow or Brown 

Spots 807 

Depth Table for Ama- 
teur Cine Cameras. . . .831 

Developers 810 

Bromide Paper 815 

Contrast (D-2S), 815 

Crystallizing 811 

Deep Tank for Roll 

Films (D-18), 818 

Desensitizer Solutions. 820 
Discolored Solution ..811 

Exposure 813 

Fine Grain Developer 

for Miniature Films 813 
Fine Grain Develop- 
ing 812 

Fogging sn 

Frilling and Blister- 
ing 812 

Improper Mixing 812 
Motion Picture Films. 811 
Motion Picture Ncga- 

ttves 814 

1 anchromatic Desensi- 
tizing (Color Grada- 

t ion ) . ;v . B18 

Photographic Develop- 
ing • 810 

Rotogravure Tone .. 810 

Tank ..(D-Tfl), 815 

Tropical gn 

Trouble Chart 811 
Universal (D-72),' 8 l 5 

White Sediment .... 811 



Photography (Cont.) 

X-Ray Films . . , 01, 
Dictionary of Photo- 

graphic Chemicals 84.1-350' 
Enlarging Pictures on 

Walls, etc o,„ 

Enlargements, Table " of " 83-' 
Enlargements on Can- " 
.889 



Fixation 80(t 

Bath Does Not H'ar- 

den gi.^ 

Improper Mixing ' ' '. ' 824 
Insufficient Washing 
Scum on Surface of 



Bath 



.824 



Short Stops 825 

Staining of Prints . '. . 824 
Stains on Hands 825 
High Speed Films, Char- 
acteristics 329 

Agfa Isochrom 'gsg 

Gevart Express 829 
Perutz Persenso, 

Sclochrome 829 

Veri chrome ' | gaa 

Zeiss Ikon, Mimosa 
and Perutz Fine 

Grain g 2 g 

Zeiss Ikon U. R. Per- 

nox 820 

How to Turn Prints into 

Money 842 

Lenses 830 

Important Points 

about 830 

Miniature Camera . ...,82S 
Miscellaneous Formulas. 833 
Ground Glass Var- 
nish ...833 

Retouching Medium ..833 
Reversal of Image ...833 
Reversing Solution ...833 
Natural Color Photogra- 
phy 840 

New Photos from Old 

and Faded Ones 837 

Percentage Solutions ...834 

Printing on Metal 833 

Printing Photos on Fab- 
rics 825 

Printing Pictures on Let- 
terheads, etc 831 

Recovery of Silver from 

Hypo Solutions 836 

Retouching 837 

Reversal Development, 
for Movie projection. .835 

Toning 816 

Colored Picture Baths. 817 
Double (Dual Sepia) . .817 
Ferrotype Plates or 

Tins 818 

For Double Color . .. .815 
Squeegee Enamel ...■818 
Two Color Prints . . . SI 8 
Transferring Pictures on 

Glass ... 826 

on Leather 

Metal S28 

Wood %f 

Plastics 851 

Compositions from Pro- 

teins .■ 851 

From Inorganic Materi- 
als 853 

Masses from Bitumens, 

Oils and Resins ....■■ S5jS 
Masses from Synthetic 

Resins |53 

Plating, Chromium ™? 

Polishes 853-854 




Floor • ■ 853 

Furniture , 8 5l 

Leather ; 853 

Metal 854 

ing 

ishes • • * *: Trnn . . . .855 
Rustprooflnff of Iron . 



INDEX 



s 

Shot Gun Cleaner 855 

Shoe Dressing, Neutral . . .855 
Stains, Removal of, from 

Marble 850 

Fire Stains 850 

Iodine 850 

Perspiration 850 

Tobacco 850 

Wine 856 



Tung, or Chinawood Oil, 
Cooking ..856 



883 



Varnish Formulas Involv- 
ing Use of Synthetic 

Resins 855 

Four-hour 856 

Linoleum 857 

Spar .....857 

Vehicle for Aluminum 
Bronzing 857 

w 

Waterproofing, "Wall (Ex- 
terior) 8 

Wood preservation 85 



