ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



j W£ J1 vented, smoothness being se- 
lD ed by brushing over with dry stea- 
C, f F or plumbago. When casting in 
etal molds, these should be well 
[fusbed out with steatite or plumbago, 
t,r ( j" inade fairly hot before pouring, as in 
aIJ ](i molds the metal curdles and be- 
^ fflPS sluggish, with the result that the 
castings run up faint. 

To Increase the Toughness, Density, 
an( ] Tenacity of Aluminum.- — For the 
purpose of improving aluminum, with- 
out increasing its specific gravity, the 
aluminum is mixed with 4 to 7 per cent 
of phosphorus, whereby the density, te- 
nacity, and especially the toughness are 
said to be enhanced. 

WORKING OF SHEET ALUMINUM: 
The great secret, if there is any, in 
working aluminum, either pure or al- 
loyed, consists in the proper lubricant 
and the shape of the tool. Another 
great disadvantage in the proper working 
of the metal is that, when a manufac- 
turer desires to make up an article, he 
will procure the pure metal in order to 
make his samples, which, of course, is 
harder to work than the alloy. But the 
different grades of aluminum sheet which 
are on the market are so numerous for 
different classes of work that it might 
be advisable to consider them for a mo- 
ment before passing to the method of 
working them. 

The pure metal, to begin with, can 
be purchased of all degrees of hardness, 
from the annealed, or what is known as 
the "dead soft" stock, to the pure alumi- 
num hard rolled. Then comes a harder 
P*de of alloys, running from "dead 
soft" metal, which will draw up hard, to 
the same metal hard rolled; and, still 
again, another set of alloys which, per- 
PjPs, are a little harder still when hard 
"d a and „ wiu » when starting with the 
dead soft," spin up into a utensil which, 
j™en finished, will probably be as stiff as 
lass. These latter alloys are finding 
arge sale for replacing brass used in all 



ni. u° '^, art witb - latne w ork on aluminum, 
Fonably more difficulty has been found 
and espec ^ a ^y i' 1 working pure metal, 
Q more complaints are heard from 
stal s ,° 1 urce tb.au from any other. As 
can li ? efore » however, these difficulties 
tool f readil y overcome, if the proper 
ag ® an °. the proper lubricants are used, 
lDa j Utoin *tic screw machines are now 
^orW' S ° tluit tney can ^ e operated when 
Whett il aluiuinum just as readily as 
som y are working brass, and in 
^ e cases more readily. To start with 



tool," that is, instearoL short stubbf 
Point, such as would be iSd S'tSSSf 
brass, the point should be lengtW 
out _ and f t f dearance *XdT E 
the inside of the tool, so as P to g 
hips of the metal a eood ch fl1n JF?,?^ 



^ P i ine metal a good chance to fre 
themselves and not cause a cloggin 

fair . l f he ^ oiDt ° f the tool-* K 

lar tool, for instance, to what would be 
used for turning wood. 

The best lubricant to be used woula 
be coal oil or water, and plenty of it. The 
latter is almost as good as coal oil if 
enough of it is used, and with either of 
these lubricants and a tool properly 
made, there should be no difficulty what 
soever in the rapid working of aluminui 
either on the lathe or on automatic screi 
machines. 

To go from the lathe to the drawing 
press, the same tools here would be usee 
in drawing up shapes of aluminum a 
are used for drawing up brass or othe 
metals; the only precaution necessai 
in this instance being to use a prop*: 
lubricant, which in this case is a chea^ 
grade of vaseline, or in some cases larc 
oil, but in the majority of instances bette 
results will be secured by the use c 
vaseline. Aluminum is probably sus- 
ceptible of deeper drawing with less 
occasion to anneal than any of the othe 
commercial metals. It requires bi 
one-third or one-fourth of as much ai 
nealing as brass or copper. For ii 
stance, an article which is now mam 
factured in brass, requiring, say, three oi 
four operations before the article is fii 
ished, would probably have to be ai 
ncaled after every operation. Wit! 
aluminum, however, if the proper grade 
is used, it is generally possible to perform 
these three operations without annealing" 
the metal at all, and at the same time tc 
produce a finished article which, to all 
intents and purposes, is as stiff as ai 
article made of sheet brass. 

Too much stress cannot be laid on tne 
fact of starting with the proper grade of 
metal, for either through igno»D«or 
by not observing this point is the founda- 
tion of the majority of the oomplaints 
That aluminum "has been tned an cT found 
wantine " If, however, it should be 
found necessary to anneal aluminum, 
£ can be readily accomphshed by 
heatine it in an ordinary muffle, being 
Heating it »» tempe rature shall not 
careful that trie le^FV 70f)O -p ^ 

a soft pine stick and draw it across hi 



84> 



ALUMINUM AND ITS TREATMENT 



metal. If it chars the stick and leaves 
a black mark on the metal, it is suffi- 
ciently annealed and is in a proper con- 
dition to proceed with further opera- 

l °Next taking up the question of spin- 
ning aluminum, success again depends 
• particularly on starting with the proper 
metal. The most satisfactory speed 
for articles from 5 to 8 inches in diam- 
eter is about 2,600 revolutions a minute, 
and for larger or smaller diameters the 
speed should be so regulated as to give 
the same velocity at the circumference. 
Aluminum is a very easy metal to spin 
and no difficulty should be found at all 
in spinning the proper grades of sheets. 
Several factories that are using large 
quantities of aluminum now, both for 
spinning and stamping, are paying their 
men by the piece the same amount that 
they formerly paid on brass and tin work, 
and it is stated that the men working on 
this basis make anywhere from 10 to 
20 per cent more wages by working alu- 
minum. 

After aluminum has been manufac- 
tured into the shape of an article, the next 
process is the finishing of it. The best 
polish can be obtained by first cutting 
down the metal with an ordinary rag buff 
on which use tripoli, and then finish it 
with a dry red rouge which comes in the 
lump form, or that which is known as 
"White Diamond Rouge." One point, 
however, that it is necessary to observe 
carefully is that both the tripoli and the 
rouge should be procured ground as fine 
as it is possible to grind them; for, if this 
is not done, the metal will have little fine 
scratches all over it, and will not appear 
as bright and as handsome as it other- 
wise would. 

If it is desired to put on a frosted ap- 
pearance, this can either be done by 
scratch brushing or sand blasting. A 
brass wire scratch brush, made of 
crimped wire of No. 32 to No. 36 B & 
b. gage, with three or four rows of bris- 
tles, will probably give the best results, 
lms work of scratch brushing can be 
somewhat lessened, however, if, before 
applying the scratch brush to the surface 
ot the aluminum, the article is first cut 
down by the use of a porpoise-hide wheel 
l ut Conne 1 cticu t sand, placing the 
m,™ be 5Tu en ^Vurface of the alumi- 
num and the wheel, so that the skin and 
the irregularities on the surface are re- 
moveo, and then putting the article on 
Lit u ? W ^ ee . 1 &efnre attempting to 

eve/t ! >r T h n it - This ™thod, W 
tht 1 Probably more advantageous in 
the treating of aluminum castings than 



for articles manufactured out of th 
metal, as in the majority of ca • e 
simply necessary before scratch hrf l- 
to cut down the article with trm r 
then polish it with rouge a, already ^ 
scribed, before putting on the « 
brush; in this way the brush see ^ 
take hold quicker and better, and t to 
duce a more uniform polish ' xo P*o- 
An effect similar to the acratch-W 
finish can be got by sand blasting 
by first sand blasting and then sctSS 
brushing the sheets, a good finish is 
tained with very much less labor than h 
scratch brushing alone. Another 
pretty frosted effect is procured by first 
sand blasting and then treated as here 
inafter described by "dipping" a J 
"frosting," and many variations In the 
finish of aluminum can be got by varying 
the treatment, either by cutting down 
with tripoli and polishing, scratch brush- 
ing, sand blasting, dipping, and frosting" 
and by combinations of those treatments. 
A very pretty mottled effect is secured on 
aluminum by first polishing and then 
scratch brushing and then holding the 
aluminum against a soft pine wheel, run 
at a high rate of speed on a lathe, and by 
careful manipulation, quite regular forms 
of a mottled appearance can be obtained. 

The dipping and frosting of aluminum 
sheet is probably the cheapest way of 
producing a nice finish. First remove 
all grease and dirt from the article by 
dipping in benzine, then dip into water 
in order that the benzine adhering to 
the article may be removed, so as not to 
affect the strength of the solution into 
which it is next dipped. After they have 
been taken out of the water and well 
shaken, the articles should be plunged in 
a strong solution of caustic soda or caus- 
tic potash, and left there a sufficient 
length of time until the aluminum starts 
to turn black. Then they should »e 
removed, dipped in water again, and the 
into a solution of concentrated mt ™ 
and sulphuric acid, composed of 2*1 P ar 
of nitric acid to 1 part of sulphuric acio- 
After being removed, the article siv owj 
be washed thoroughly in water and 
in hot sawdust in the usual way 



finish can also be varied somewhat bj 
making the solution of caustic s oa» . 
varying degrees of strength, or by a ^ e 
a small amount of common salt i 
solution. blood- 
In burnishing the metal use ^ " is h- 
stone or a steel burnisher. In D B[)( j 
ing use a mixture of melted vasei i ^ ^ 
coal oil, or a solution compost 
tablcspoonfuls of ground borax ?T ft jf tf f- i 
in about a quart of hot water, W" 1 




AMALGAMS 



83 



, n3 of ammonia added. In engrav- 
?> P which adds materially to the ap- 
rf'rance of finished castings, book cov- 



picture frames, and similar articles 

t 

'^htlia or coal oil, or a mixture of coal 



^je of sheet, probably the best lubri- 
nt to use on an engraver's tool in order 
obtain a clean cut, which is bright, is 



■i a ncl vaseline. The naphtha, how- 
ever, is preferred, owing to the fact that 
ft does not destroy the satin finish in the 
Neighborhood of the cut, as the other 
lubricants are very apt to do. There is, 
jj 0W ever, as much skill required in using 
m d making a tool in order to give a 
bright, clean cut as there is in the choice 
of the lubricant to be used. The tool 
should be made somewhat on the same 
plan as the lathe tools already outlined. 
That is, they should be brought to a 
sharp point and be "cut back" rather 
ar, so as to give plenty of clearance. 

There has been one class of work in 
aluminum that has been developed 
ately and only to a certain extent, in 
which there are great possibilities, and 
that is in drop forging the metal. Some 
very superior bicycle parts have been 
manufactured by drop forging. This can 
)e accomplished probably more readily 
with aluminum than with other metals, 
or the reason that it is not necessary 
with all the alloys to work them hot; 
ronsequently, they can be worked and 
landled move rapidly. 

ALUMINUM, TO CLEAN: 

^See Cleaning Preparations and Meth- 

ALUMHTOM ALLOYS : 

See Alloys. 

ALUMINUM BRONZE: 

See Alloys under Bronzes. 

ALUMINUM CASTINGS: 

see Casting. 

ALUMINUM PAPER: 

see Paper. 

ALUMINUM PLATING: 

fte e Plating. 

ALUMINUM POLISHES: 

b «e Polishes. 



Amalgams 



Alloys. alS ° Easily Fusible AHoy 3 mlder 
Th 

^Ys «f name amalgam is given to al- 
term « tals containing mercury. The 
ll si 2 niVI UCS to m from the alchemists. 
6 mes softening, because an excess^ 



of mercury dissolves a l arge number of 

Preparation of Amalgam <3 \f 
forms amalgams with^Ti^Jf 00 ^ 
unites directly and readily, either co ld S 
hot w lth potasfiium> Jtium J^u™ 
strontium, calcium, magnesi 
cadmium, tm : antimony, lead 
fil a ^ ld i directfy, but. 
ncultly, with aluminum, copper and 
palladium. This combinat?on 'taket 
place oftenest at the ordinary temper 
ature; certain metals, however, F 
aluminum and antimony, combine on] 
when heated m presence of quicksilver, 

Quicksilver has no direct action o 
metals of high fusing points: manganes 
iron, nickel, cobalt, uranium, platinum 
and their congeners. Still, amalgam; 
oi these metals can be obtained of buty 
rous consistency, cither by electrolysis o: 
their saline solutions, employing quick 
silver as the negative electrode, or by th< 
action of an alkaline amalgam (potas 
sium or sodium), on their concentrate 
and neutral saline solutions. Thes 
same refractory metals are also amalgi 
mated superficially when immersed : 
the amalgam of sodium or of ammoniu 
in presence of water. 

Processes for preparing amalgams b; 
double decomposition between an alkalin 
amalgam and a metallic salt, or by elec 
trolj'sis of saline solutions, with employ- 
ment of mercury as the negative elec 
trode, apply a fortiori to metals capabU 
of combining directly with the quick- 
silver. The latter of these methods 
especially utilized for the preparation 
alkaline earthy metals by electrolyth 
decomposition of the solutions of thei. 
salts or hydrated oxides with quicksilve 
as a cathode. 

General Properties of Amalgams. 
Amalgams are liquid when the quick- 
silver is in great excess; solid, but readily 
fusible, when the alloyed metal pre- 
dominates, j 

They have a metallic luster, and a 
metallic structure which rende»Jh«n 
brittle. They even form 
metallic combinations of constant proper 

silver, when the excess e » v , 
compression in a ch ^/„t slendir 
filtration in a. g la %. fu ™ ri fi ce almost 
stem, terminating with an orifice aim 

capillary. fusinff heat of a metal 

According as the fusing u binatioa 
is less or gre at er than x ts ^ mation 
heat with quicksilver, the *J»Jfe or a 

of this metal P«" du ^» * n Thus pcrta*- 
lowering of temperature, Xtn 



sium, sodium, and cadmium, in alloy 
with quicksilver, disengage heat; while 
ainc antimony, tin, bismuth, lead, and 
silver combine with mercury with ab- 
sorption of heat. The amalgamation ot 
162 parts of quicksilver with 21 parts ot 
lead 12 parts of tin or of antimony, and 
g8.5 parts of bismuth, lowers the tem- 
perature of the mixture 79° F. 

Amalgams formed with disengage- 
ment of heat arc electro-negative with 
reference to the metals alloyed with the 
quicksilver. The products with absorp- 
tion of heat are electro-negative with ref- 
erence to the metals combined with the 
quicksilver; consequently, m a battery 
of elements of pure cadmium, and amal- 
gamated cadmium, the cadmium will be 
the negative pole; in case of zinc and 
amalgamated zinc, the zinc will be the 
positive pole. 

Heat decomposes all amalgams, va- 
porizing the mercury and leaving the 
metal alloys as a residue. 

Water is decomposed by the amal- 
gams of potassium and sodium, because 
the heat of formation of these amalgams, 
although considerable, is even less than 
the heat disengaged by potassium and 
sodium, on decomposing water. The 
alkaline amalgams may, therefore, serve 
as a source of nascent hydrogen in pres- 
ence of water, giving rise to an action 
less energetic, and often inure advan- 
tageous, than that of the alkaline metals 
alone. Thus is caused the frequent em- 
ployment of sodium amalgam for hydro- 
genizing a large number of bodies. As 
a consequence of their action on water, 
the_ alkaline amalgams are changed by 
moist air, with production of free alkafi 
or alkaline carbonate. 

Applications of Potassium Amalgams. 
~I- — They furnish a process for prepar- 
ing potassium by the decomposition of 
potash by the electric current, by em- 
ploying quicksilver as the cathode, and 
vaporizing the Quicksilver of the amal- 
gam formed by heating this in a current 
of dry hydrogen. 

.. M-— They can serve for the prepara- 
tion of the amalgams of the metals, other 
than those of the alkaline group by de- 
composing the salts of these metals, with 
formation of a salt of potash and of the 
amalgam of the metal corresponding to 
\he original salt. 

HI-— They ca » be employed as a 
of U w a V, r SC i? "J h ? d ™Z.™ ^ presence 
stanch Mrogenizing many sub- 

Applications of Sodium Amalgams.— 
Ihese are nearly the same as thofe of the 



potassium amalgams, but the 
amalgams are employed almo^ 80 ^ 11 ^ 
sively, because sodium is easi er to if Xcui - 
than potassium, and is cheaper m?** 
employments are the following-' e 

I. — Sodium amalgam furnishes n 
ess for the preparation of sodium i? 6 " 
soda is decomposed by means ? 
electric current ----- 01 th« 



soda is decomj: 

employing ~~ Q 7; 0 w, tbe 
as the cathode, and afterwards van ' ■ 



the quicksilver of the anid7 a £ P f° rizin « 
by heating this in a current of drvT 3 
drogen. ^ fl y* 

II. — Amalgams of sodium serve f 
the preparation of amalgams of the on? 
er metals, particularly alkaline earth 
metals and metals of high fusing point 
by decomposing the sal ts of these metals' 
with formation of a salt of soda and of 
the amalgam of the metal corresponding 
to the original salt. 

III. — They serve for amalgamating 
superficially the metals of high fusing 
point, called "refractory," such as iron 
and platinum, when a well-cleaned plate 
of these metals is immersed iu sodium 
amalgam in presence of water. 

IV. — An amalgam of 2 or 3 per cent of 
sodium is employed in the processes oi : 
extraction of gold by amalgamation. It 
has the property of rendering quick- 
silver more brilliant, and consequently 
more energetic, by acting as a deoxidant 
on the pellicle of oxide formed on its 
surface in presence of certain ores, 
which, by keeping it separated from the 
particles of gold, destroy its activity. 
Sodium amalgam of 3 per cent is utilized 
with success for the amalgamated plates 
employed in crushers and other appa- 
ratus for treating the ores of gold. If » 
few drops of this amalgam are spread 
on a plate of copper, of tin, or of znic, a 
brilliant coating of an amalgam of tin, 
copper, or zinc is immediately formed. 

V. — Amalgams of from 2 to 8 per cent 
of sodium serve frequently in Ia» Dra J 
ries for reducing or hydrogeniang or 
ganic combinations, without ™ n ™* 
the risk of a partial destruction ot tne 
compounds by too intense > ^° o % m 
may occur by employing iree 
instead of its amalgam, 

Applications of Barium Amalg^'T 
aese can, bv distillation, f uraJ g r pre - 



Th 



urn. 



paring this metal, which, when ttj ^ 
tained, almost always retains 
sodium. s 

Applications of Strontium ^ ^jed 
—These amalgams, washed _ aJ \ epaI a- 
rapidly immediately after tlieir F ^ 
tion, and then heated to a 



.AMALGAMS 



ren t of dry hydrogen, yield a 
of strontium. 



Application of Cadmium Amalgams 

"i i ,ms of cadmium, formed of cqi 



qual 



^"vhfs^of cadmium and quicksilver. 

h power of cohesion and are 



^■+ e malleable; the case is the same with 
I amalgam formed of 1 part of cad- 
aiul % parts of quicksilver. They 



an 

"fused as dental cements for plugging 
dr f° r same P ur P 03e an amalgam 
tfq j, ar ts of quicksilver, 1 part of cad- 
mium, and 2 parts of tin may be used. 

Applications of Zinc Amalgams.— The 
principal employment of zinc amalgams 
ij their use as a cathode or negative elec- 
trode in the batteries of Munson, Dan- 
iels, and Lechanehe. This combination 
is designed to render the zinc non-attack- 
able by the exciting liquid of the battery 
nth open circuit. The action of the 
mercury is to prevent the zinc from form- 
ing a large number of small voltaic ele- 
ments when foreign bodies are mingled 
with the metal; in a word, the giving to 
ordinary zinc the properties of pure zmc, 
and consequently of causing a great sav- 
ins? in expense. 

For amalgamating a zinc plate it is 
plunged for a few seconds into water in 
which there is one-sixteenth in volume 
of sulphuric acid, then rubbing with 
a copper-wire brush which has been 
dippedin the quicksilver. The mercury 
takea more readily on the zinc when, 
after the zinc has been cleaned with 
^ater sharpened with sulphuric acid, 
|p moistened with a solution of corro- 
fve _ sublimate, which is reduced and 
nmnshes a first very thin coat of amal- 
gam, oq wllich the quickgilver is im _ 

J^ately fixed by simple immersion 
Without rubbing. 

ant.,? I 1 nC of a ba ttery may be amalga- 
Ef h J Putting at the bottom of the 
a lift ! r ™ e " t . c °ntainiiig each element, 
rinn + qu l. cksilvcr in su ™ a way that the 
EL^ Clle i the liquid - Th « amalga- 
WmJ* ft cted under the influence of 
«n ct^A-u , tllls process applies only 
V W I at the zinc al °^ touches 
l^cksilv™ tbe vessel containing the 



S of Man ganese Amalgams. 

of aati„ may serve for the preparation 
*uffi c l*f * es< v. Por this purpose it is 



Wogen t0 Tu tm in a cu "-ent of pure 
' ^ form ' * manganese remains in 

*a ot a grayish powder. 

^E^ ons °* Tin Amalgams,— I.— 
^ittcli^ j B . ass ' TnJ s operation is 
V'Wflod m the following manner; 



87 



On 

s 



« spread out and Z^ZT^ 
quicksilver, 5 or 6 SI * Jth * %er o! 
ness. The gl ass is ^ m thick* 

sheet of tin fn SUc h ™ e y * 8 ld « pa the 
the excess of quicksilver? ^ d " Ve ofi 



surfaces are covered without" 



w ten the two 

tion of air, weightT ar^? 1 ^Posi- 
glass. In a few days 4 e P H? d ° U lhe 

II. An amalgam consisting of o n artll 
of zinc and 1 part tin may L used £ 
covering the cushions of frictionaf dS 
trie machines. This amalgam i % T l 
pared by first melting the zinc and tin £ 
a crucible and adding the quicksilver 
previously heated. 

III. — Mention has been made of the 
cadmium amalgam employed for plug- 
ging teeth, an amalgam of £ parts of 
quicksilver, % parts of tin, and 1 part <rf 
cadmium. For the same purpose an 
amalgam of tin, silver, and gold is em- 
ployed. (See also Cements, Dental.) 

Applications of Copper Amalgams.— 
I. — An amalgam of SO per cent of coppei 
has been employed for filling teeth. 
This use has been abandoned on account 
of the inconvenience occasioned by the 
great changeableness of the product. 

II. — The amalgam of 30 per cent of 
copper, designated by the name of "me- 
tallic mastic," is an excellent cement for 
repairing objects and utensils of porce- 
lain. For this employment, the broken 
surfaces are heated to 662° F., and a little 
of the amalgam, previously heated to the 
consistency of melted wax, is applied. 

III. — Copper amalgam, of 30 to 45 
per cent of copper, rendered plastic by 
heating and grinding, may serve for ob- 
taining with slight compression copies M 
delicate objects, which may, ^ 
ening of the amalgam, be reproduce^ 
either in wax or by galvanic P«>««J 

TV— According to Debray, wnen a 
medal obtained Vthan amalgam oj 
45 per cent of copper by compression 
thesoft state, in muldsofj J»ttjP«g d£ 
is heated progressively to tedn^B in 
atmosphere of hydrogen . the 
is volatilized gradually, and we p { ^ 

3 per come together wi 
in such a way as to produ 



ea g^" u ;;/ h ' e ; without fusion 
of copper come together^^^ ^ ul 

exclusively of me- 
tallic ■ ■ r^TVreold the 



j *-^« f nrmed exclusively o 
production formed 

Jlic copper, ot tnc °J lk of gol c. 
y.-In the { me ^ry y w f t h *«isJ»- 
ashers are J^^f OT S« 
I^ 6 * iT.Xn of these j*** 



crush 
ma 



old. The preparati 



88 



AMALGAMS 



Ufc are at least Ine SSSKf 

amalgam is replaced by anotWT 



3 delicate, requiring about two 
weeks They are freed from greasy mat- 
ter by rubbing with ashes, or, better, 
with a little sand and caustic soda, or it 
more rapid action is desired, with a clota 
dipped in dilute nitric acid; they are 
washed with water, then with a solution 
of potassium cyanide, and finally brushed 
with a mixture of sal ammoniac and a 
little quicksilver, until the surface is 
completely amalgamated. They are 
finally made to absorb as much quicK- 
gilver as possible. But the plates thus 
treated are useful for only a few days 
when they arc sufficiently covered with a 
layer of gold amalgam; in the meantime 
they occasion loss of time and of gold. 
So it is preferable to cover them arti- 
ficially with a little gold amalgam, which 
is prepared by dissolving gold in quick- 
silver. Sometimes the amalgam of gold 
is replaced by an amalgam of silver, 
which is readily poured and more eco- 
nomical. 

Another method giving better results 
consists in silvering copper slabs by elec- 
troplating and covering them with a layer 
of silver. Then it is only necessary to 
apply a little quicksilver, which adheres 
quite rapidly, so that they are ready for 
use almost immediately, and arc quite 
active at the outset. 

These amalgamation slabs ought to 
be cleaned before each operation. Po- 
tassium cyanide removes fatty matter, 
and sal ammoniac the oxides of the low 
metals. 

Applications of Lead Amalgams. — 
These meet with an interesting employ- 
ment for the autogenous soldering of 
lead. After the surfaces to be soldered 
have been well cleaned, a layer of lead 
amalgam is applied. It is afterwards 
sufficient to pass along the line of junc- 
tion a soldering iron heated to redness 
m order that the heat should cause the 
volatilization of the quicksilver, and that 
the lead, liberated in a state of fine divi- 
sion, should be melted and cause the 
adherence of the two surfaces. The 
only precaution necessary is to avoid 
breathing the mercurial vapor, which is 
quite poisonous. 

Applications of Bismuth Amalgams.— 
1 he amalgam formed of 1 per cent of 
bismuth and 4 parts of quicksilver will 
cause the strong adherence of glass It 
is employed with advantage in the tin- 
ning of glass globes. For this operation 
It is poured into a dry hot receiver, and 
then passed over the whole surface of 
tne glass; it solidifies on cooling. For 



posed of 9, parts of quicksilver T' Q ° tt " 
bismuth, 1 part of lead, and 1 m J 3 ^ °* 
The bismuth, broken into sKi 0 ! 1 *' 
ments, is added to the tin and lead e ' 
viously melted in the crucible anH 1 ? te * 
the mixture of the three metals h 11 
fluid, the quicksilver is poured in^vi 3 
stirring with an iron rod The i' 
ties floating on the surface are 
and when the temperature is suffici/3 
lowered this amalgam is slowly m -»rll 
into the vessels to be tinned, which ha 
been previously well cleaned and aliehS 
heated. M. Ditte recommends for fk 
same employment, as a very strong ad 
herent to the glass, an amalgam obtained 
by dissolving hot 2 parts of bismuth and 
1 part of lead in a solution of 1 part of 
tin in 10 parts of quicksilver. By cans- 
ing a quantity of this amalgam to move 
around the inside of a receiver, clean 
dry, and slightly heated, the surface -will 
be covered with a thin, brilliant layer, 
which hardens quite rapidly. 

For the injection of anatomical pieces 
an amalgam formed of 10 parts of quick- 
silver, 50 parts of bismuth, 31 pads of 
lead, and 18 parts of tin, fusible at 77.5° 
and solidifiable at 60° C, is made use of; 
or, again, an amalgam composed of 9 
parts of Darcet alloy and 1 part of quick- 
silver fusible at 127|°F., and pasty at a 
still lower temperature. This last amal- 
gam may also be used for filling carious 
teeth. The Darcet alloy, as known, con- 
tains 2 parts of bismuth, 1 part of lead, 
and 1 part of tin, and melts at 1964°*. 
The addition^ of 1_ part of quicksilver 
lowers the fusing point to 104° F. 

Applications of Silver Amalgams. 
In the silvering of mirrors by the ret 
jean method, which has almost UD1V< 
sally replaced tinning, the P r °P erty ke ^ 
silver in readily amalgamating is ta 
advantage of, by substituting the lW 
after silvering to the action ot a u 
solution of double cyanide ot mere j 



and potassium in such a manner 



ns to 



I i, r j]|i: : lit 

form an amalgam of white and Dru ^ 
silver adhering strongly to the g Ia s ■ ^ 
facilitate the operation and utilize » ^ 
silver, while economizing the. do t ^ e 
nide, M. Lenoir has recommend : 
following: Sprinkle the glass aJJ^jiJ 
when it is covered with the ' oW <jer. 
solution with very fine z, " c , " er iifld 
which precipitates the _qiucKSJ 
regulates the amalgamation- , u pr g}$o 

II.— The metallurgy ot 
takes advantage of the pro] 



silver J 
perty ot 



AMALGAMS 



89 



metal in combining cold with quicksil- 
ver; this for the treatment of poor silver 

0I j n the Saxon or Freiburg process for 
beating silver ores, recourse is had to 
Quicksilver in the case of amalgam in 
^ plfl [gam filing casks, in which the ore, 
after grinding, is shaken with disks of 
iron, and with mercury and water. The 
anja lgam, collected and filtered under 
strong pressure, contains from 30 to 33 
per cent of silver. It is distilled either 
in cylindrical retorts of cast iron, fur- 
nished with an exit tube immersed in 
the water for condensing the mercurial 
vapors, or on plates of iron, arranged 
over each other along a vertical iron 
stem, supported by a tripod at the bot- 
tom of a tank filled with water, and 
covered with an iron receiver, which is 
itself surrounded with ignited charcoal. 
It should be remarked that the last por- 
tions of quicksilver in a silver amalgam 
submitted to distillation are volatilized 
only under the action of a high, and pro- 
longed temperature. 

Applications of Gold Amalgams. — I. — ■ 
Gilding with quicksilver. This process 
of gilding, much employed formerly, is 
now but little used. It can be applied 
only to metals slightly fusible and capa- 
ble of amalgamation, like silver, copper, 
bronze, and brass. Iron can also be 
gilded by this method, provided it is 
previously covered with a coating of 
copper. To perform this gilding the 
surface is well cleaned, and the gold 
amalgam, consisting of 2, parts of gold 
and 1 part of quicksilver, prepared as 
mentioned before, is applied. The piece 
ia afterwards heated to about the red, so 
as to volatilize the mercury. The gold 
remains, superficially alloyed with the 
metal, and forms an extremely solid 
iay er of deadened gold, which can be 
anerwards polished. The volatilization 
^ould be effected under a chimney hav- 
ing strong draught, in order to avoid the 
poisonous action of the mercurial vapors. 
it„ ■ . e amalgamation of gold finds 
0 f P rin .cipal applications in the treatment 
sLn erous oros - Th e extraction of 
man. spangles of gold scattered in gold- 
di^V 1 ?* san ds is based on the ready 
on tfc ?° n of £° ld in quicksilver, and 
Bold if lorma tion of an amalgam of solid 
t 1 ^ ^pression and filtering through 

hVrM °£i Skin ' in a state more or less 
with t spangles of gold are shaken 

colleof i > " t thl " ir wei f?ht of quicksilver, 
mi ia the cavities of sluices and 

the » n i ■ a smal1 quantity of sand. 
K°W is dissolved and the sand re- 



separate the excess of m n ' SO as *• 
passes through Spores TtHkm^ 
yet again, it is filtered thro^l, « : i° r » 
funnel having a verv sWu g * a % l * ss 
almost capmiryTeTittn. 6 ^ 
cases an amalgam of solid go d remain^ 
which is submitted to the action of heat 
in a crucible or cast-iron retort 

Sfc-TS?* 7 ith a b ent-iron ?ube ^i 
which the extremity, surrounded with a 
cloth immersed in water, is arranged 
above a receiver half full of water 'f£ 
quicksilver is vaporized and condensed 
in the water. The gold remains in the 
retort. c 
The property of gold of combining 
readily with quicksilver is also used in 
many kinds of amalgamating apparatus 
for extraction and in the metallurgy of 
gold. e " / 

In various operations it is essential 
to keep the quicksilver active by preserv- 
ing its limpidity. For this purpose 
potassium cyanide and ammonium 
chloride are especially employed; some- 
times wood ashes, carbonate of soda, 
hyposulphite of soda, nitrate of potash, 
cupric sulphate, sea salt, and lime; the 
latter for precipitating the soluble sul- 
phates proceeding from the decomposi- 
tion of pyrites. 

The amalgamation of gold is favorec 
by a temperature of 38° to 45° C. (100° 
to 113° F.), and still more by the em- 
ployment of quicksilver in the nascent 
state. This last property is the base of 
the Designol process, which consists in 
treating auriferous or auro-argentiferous 
ores, first ground with sea salt, in revolv- 
ing cylinders of cast iron, with iron and 
mercury bichloride, in such a way that 
the mercury precipitated collects the gold 
and eventually the silver more effica. 
ciously. 

Gold Amalgam.— Eight parts of gold 
and 1 of mercury are formed into an 
amalgam for plating by rendering tne 
gold into thin plates, making it red hot, 
and then putting it into the mercury wtn]e 
the latter is also heated to ebullition. 
The gold immediately disappears in 
combination with the mercury, after 
which the mixture may be turned int< 
water to cool. It is then ready for use. 

Zinc Amalgam for Electric Batteries. 
—Dissolve 2 parts of mercury in 1 part 
of aqua regia. This accomplished ad< 
5 parts of hydrochloric acid This solo 
tion is made warm. It suffices to di 
the zinc to be amalgamated into tfl 
liquid only for a few seconds. 



90 



AMALGAMS— AMBER 



Amalgam for Cementing Glass, Por- 
r^aS Etc. -Take tin 2 parts, and cad- 
mum' f part. Fuse in an iron spoon 
£ some vessel of the same material 
When the two materials are m f usior, -add 
a little mercury, previously headed, t'lace 
Si in an iron crucible and boil, agitating 
the mass with a pestle. This amalgam 
ifsoTt and can be kneaded between the 
fingers. It may be employed for luting 
dais or porcelain vessels, as well as lor 
Sling teeth. It hardens m a short while. 



Lead, 25 parts; tin, 25 parts; bismuth 
25 parts; mercury, 25 parts; or lead, 20 
parts; tin, 20 parts; bismuth, 20 parts; 
mercury, 40 parts. Melt the lead and 
the tin, then add the bismuth; skim sev- 
eral limes and add the mercury, stirring 
the composition vigorously. 
(See also Mirror-Silvering). 

Copper Amalgam.— Copper amalgam, 
or so-called Viennese metal cement, crys- 
tallizes with the greatest readiness and 
acquires such hardness on solidifying 
that it can be polished like gold. The 
amalgam may also be worked under the 
hammer or between rollers; it can also 
be stamped, and retains its metallic luster 
for a long time in the air. In air con- 
taining hydrogen sulphide, however, it 
quickly tarnishes and turns black. A 
very special property of copper amalgam 
consists in that it becomes very soft when 
laid in water, and attains such pliancy 
that it can be employed for modeling the 
most delicate objects. After a few 
hours the amalgam congeals again into 
a very fine-grained, rather malleable 
mass. An important application of. 
copper amalgam is that for cementing 
metals. All that is necessary for this 
purpose is to heat the metals, which must 
be bright, to 80-90° C. (176-194° F.), to 
apply the amalgam and to press the metal 
pieces together. They will cohere as 
firmly as though soldered together. 

Copper amalgam may be prepared in 
the following manner: 

> Place strips of zinc in a solution of blue 
vitriol and agitate the solution thor- 
eughly. The copper thus obtained in 
the form of a very fine powder is washed 
and, while still moist, treated in a mor- 
tar with a solution of mercury nitrate. 
The copper powder thereby amalga- 
mates mon readily with the quicksilver. 
Next, hot water is poured over the cop- 
per, the mortar is kept hot, and the mer- 
cury added. Knead with the pestle of 
the mortar until the copper, pulverulent 
in the beginning, has united with the 
mercury into a very plastic mass. The 



longer the kneading is continued 
more uniform will be the mass. AT 
as the amalgam has acquired the suit ^ 
character— for its production 3 pari 
copper and 7 parts of mercury are i ° f 
— the water is poured off and the a i 
gam still soft is given the shape in ^ , 
ft is to be kept. P lD -w nie]l 

For cementing purposes, the amaW m 
is rolled out into small cylinders wh 
diameter is about 0.10 to 0.2 inches Tvitu 
a length of a few inches. I n order t 
produce with this amalgam impression! 
of castings, which are made after wood 
cuts, the amalgam is rolled out W 
into a thin plate and pressed firmly 
onto the likewise heated plaster cast 
After the amalgam has hardened the 
thin plate of it may be reinforced by 
pouring on molten type metal. 

Silver Amalgam. — Silver amalgam can 
easily be made with^ the help of finely 
powdered silver. The mercury need 
only be healed to 250° to 300° C. (482° 
to 572° F.); silver powder is then sprin- 
kled on it, and mixed with it by stirring. 
The vessel is heated for several minutes 
and then allowed to cool, the excess of 
mercury being removed from the granu- 
lated crystalline amalgam by pressing in 
a leather bag. Silver amalgam can also 
easi ly be made by dissolving silver in 
nitric acid, evaporating the solution till 
the excess of free acid is eliminated, di- 
luting with distilled water, and adding 
mercury to the fluid in the proportion of 
4 parts, by weight, of mercury to 1 of the 
silver originally used. The mercury 
precipitates ths silver in a metallic state, 
and immediately forms an amalgam wit* 
it; the fluid standing above after a time 
contains no more silver, but consists or 
a solution of mercury nitrate mixed wiw 
whatever copper was contained in t 
dissolved silver in the form of copper 

nitrate. The absence of a 

of hydrochloric 

in a test tube, shows that all the gj 
has been eliminated from the solujio 
and is present in the form of aniai c 



cipitate, if a few drops of nyarot w» 
acid are added to a sample oi tne u 



Amalgam for the Rubber of hiec 
Machines. -Mercury, 100 V^'^Lm 
parts; tin, 50 parts. 
reduced to powder and in Jf F rU bb<ff 
with grease can be applied to w 
of electric machines. 
AMALGAM GOLD PLATING: 
See Gilding under Plating. 

AMBER : , rpfu ilr t 

Imitation Amber.— Melt. enre^ 

gether pine rosin, 1 ; Iacca m 
white colophony, 15 parts. 



AMBER CEMENT— ANILINE STAINS 



AjtBBR CEMENT: 

■gee Adhesives under Cements. 

mM R VARNISH: 

"g ee Varnishes, 

AMBROSIA POWDER: 

See Salts (Effervescent). 

0LIVOL DEVELOPER: 

See Photography. 

AMETHYST (IMITATION): 

See Gems, Artificial. 

AMMOK'-CARBONITE : 

See Explosives. 



Ammonia 

Household Ammonia. — (See also House- 
hold Formulas.) — Household ammonia is 
simply diluted ammonia water to which 
borax and soap have been added. To 
make it cloudy add potassium nitrate 
or methylated spirit. The following are 
good formulas: 
L — Ammonia water .... 16 parts 

Yellow soap 64 parts 

Potassium nitrate. . . 1 part 
Soft water, sufficient 

to make 200 parts 

Shave up the soap and dissolve it in 
the water by heating, add the potassium 
nitrate and dissolve. Cool, strain, skim 
off any suds or bubbles, add the am- 
monia, mix, and bottle at once. 

II. — Yellow soap 10 grains 

Borax 1 drachm 

Lavender water. ... 30 minims 
Stronger ammonia 

water 0 ounces 

Water, enough to 

make 20 ounces 

Dissolve the soap and borax in 5 
ounces of boiling water; when cold add 
the lavender water and ammonia, and 
make up to a pint with water. 
HL— Methylated spirit. . . 1 gallon 

Soft water. . 1 gallon 

Stronger ammonia 

water 1 gallon 

— Ammonia water 5 pints 

Distilled water 5 pints 

Soap 100 grains 

Ohvc oil , .... 5 drachms 

.,^ ut the soap in shavings, boil with the 
" and water, cool, add the nmmonia 
J a te*, and bottle. For use in laundries, 
aths, and for general household pur- 
poses add one tablespoonful to one 
gallon of water. 



at 



V '77 The best quality: 

OiUfcitron.ua S drachms 

Dissolve the oils in the nl™l,~i j 
add to the water. To It lf d 
4 ounces of talc (or fuller's earth will 
answer), mix thoroughly, strain through 
canvas, and to the colate add 1 2 or 3 
gallons of ammonia water, according to 
the strength desired, in which has bee 
dissolved 1, 8, or 3 ounces of white curd 
or soft soap. 

Liquor Ammo nii Anisatus. — 

Oil of anise, by weight l part 

Alcohol, by weight 94 par- 

Water of ammonia, by weight. . 5 pa 

Dissolve the oil in the alcohol and a t 
the water of ammonia. 

It should be a clear, yellowish liqui 

Violet Color for Ammonia. — A purpl 
blue color may be given to amnion" 
water by adding an aqueous solutio 
of litmus. The shade, when pa* 
enough, will probably meet all views 
to a violet color. 

Perfumed Ammonia Water. — T 
following are typical formulas^ 

I. — Stronger water of am- 
monia 6 ounces 

Lavender water 1 ounce 

Soft soap 10 grains 

Water, enough to 

make 16 ounces 

II.— Soft soap 1 ounce 

Borax 8 draen 

Cologne water - . £ ounce 

Stronger water of am- 
monia H ounces 

Water, enough to 

make *2 ounces 

Rub up the soap and borax with water 
until dissolved, strain and add the other 
ingredients. The perfumes may be 
varied to suit the price. 
AMMONIA FOR FIXING PRINTS: 
See Photography. 

ANGOSTURA BITTERS: 
See Wines and Liquors. 

ANILINE : 
See Dyes. 

ANILINE IN PIGMENTS, TESTS FOR: 

See Pigments. 

ods. 



92 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



ANISE CORDIAL:. 

See Wines and Liquors. 

ANKARA: 

See Butter. 
ANNEALING OF STEEL, TOOLS, WIRE, 
AND SPRINGS: 
See Steel. 

ODYNES : 

See Pain Killers. 

rr DESTROYERS: 

See Insecticides. 



Antidotes for Poisons 

POISON, SYMPTOMS AND ANTI- 
DOTES. 

When a person has taken poison the 
first thing to do is to compel the patient 
to vomit, and for that purpose give any 
emetic that can be most readily and 
quickly obtained, and which is prompt 
and energetic, but safe in its action. 
For this purpose there is, perhaps, 
nothing better than a large teaspoonfiil 
of ground mustard in a tumblerful of 
warm waier, and it has the advantage of 
being almost always at hand. If the dry 
mustard is not to be had use mixed 
mustard from the mustard pot. Its 
operation may generally be facilitated 
by the addition of a like quantity of 
common table salt. If the mustard is 
not at hand, give two or three teaspoon- 
fuls of powdered alum in syrup or 
molasses, and give freely of warm water 
to drink; or give 10 to 20 grains of sul- 
phate of zinc (white vitriol), or 20 to 30 
grains of ipecac, with 1 or 2 grains of 
tartar emetic, in a large cup of warm 
water, and repeat every ten minutes until 
three or four doses are given, unless 
free vomiting is sooner produced. After 
vomiting has taken place large draughts 
of warm water should be given, so 
that the vomiting will continue until the 
poisonous substances have been thor- 
oughly evacuated, and then suitable anti- 
dotes should be given. If vomiting can- 
not be produced the stomach pump 
should be used . When it is known what 
particular kind of .poison has been swal- 
™X ' u en fte proper antidote for that 
poison should be given; but when this 
cannot be ascertained, as is often the 

cfned fredy ° f e . qUa - 1 P arts of cal- 
cined magnesia, pulverized charcoal, 

oulr t SqU ^° Xlde oi iron > in a sufficient 
quantity of water. This is a very harm- 

oenefat, as the ingredients, though very 



simple, are antidotes for the mn . t 
mon and active poisons. I n « im- 
mixture cannot be obtained the 
should be soothed and protected i acl3 
free administration of demulcent ^ 
laginous or oleaginous drinks, suchSf 
whites of eggs, milk, mucilage of ' 
arable, or slippery-elm bark fl 
tea, starch, wheat flour, or arr ^ 
mixed in water, linseed or oliv e °^i root 
melted butter or lard. Subsen ? r 
the bowels should be moved bv ** 
gentle laxative, as a tables pounfuf 1116 
two of castor oil, or a teaspoonful of n\ 
cined magnesia; and pain or other e ii 
dence of inflammation must be relievp 
by the administration of a few drops o 
laudanum, and the repeated applicant) 
of hot poultices, fomentations, and mus 
tard plasters. 

The following are the names of th 
substances that may give rise to poiso 
ing, most commonly used, and their auti 
dotes: 

Mineral Acids — Sulphuric Acid (0' 
of Vitriol), Nitric Acid (Aqua Fortis 
Muriatic Acid (Spirits of Salts).— Symp- 
toms: Acid 5> burning taste in the mouth, 
acute pain in the throat, stomach, and 
bowels; frequent vomiting, generally 
bloody; mouth and lips excoriated, 
shriveled, white or yellow; hiccough, 
copious stools, more or less bloody, with 
great tenderness in the abdomen; diffi- 
cult breathing, irregular pulse, excessive 
thirst, while drink increases the pain 
and rareW remains in the stomach; fre- 
quent but vain efforts to urinate; cold 
sweats, altered countenance; convul- 
sions, generally preceding death. iNitrje 
acid causes yellow stains; sulphuric 
acid, black ones. Treatment: Mix 
calcined magnesia in milk or water to tM 
consistence of cream, and give freely t 
drink a glassful every couple of minutes 
if it can be swallowed. Common soa 
(hard or soft), chalk, whiting,, or e y 
mortar from the wall mixed 111 , W Q 
may be given, until magnesia can om 
tained. Promote vomiting by ticiu 
the throat, if necessary, and vJl ?' 
poison is got rid of, flaxseed or sjJVft 
eim tea. cruel, or other nuW a ■ 



The inflammation which &lw>y»™ 
needs good treatment to save 
tient's life. 



folio 



Ox- 



Vegetable Acids— Acetic, CltX j^ tenS e 
alic, Tartaric. —Symptoms • afl d 
burning pain of mouth, tJir j^jy 
stomach; vomiting blood wnicn stu ^ or 
acid, violent purging, collapse' 
death. . t B teD 

Oxalic acid is frequently i« 



ANTIDOTES FOR- TYSONS 



jnistake for Epsom salts, to which in 
shops it often bears a strong resemblance. 
Treatment: Give chalk or magnesia in a 
large quantity of water, or large draughts 
of fiiae water. If these are not at hand, 
scrape the wall or ceiling, and give the 
scrapings mixed with water. 

Prussic or Hydrocyanic Acid — Laurel 
Water, Cyanide of Potassium, Bitter 
Almond Oil, Etc. — Symptoms: In large 
doses almost invariably instantaneously 
fatal; when not immediately fatal, sud- 
den loss of sense and control of the vol- 
untary muscles. The odor of the poison 
generally noticeable on the breath. 
Treatment: Chlorine, in the form of 
chlorine water, in doses of from 1 to 4 
fluidrachms, diluted. Weak solution 
of chloride lime of soda; water of am- 
monia (spirits of hartshorn), largely 
diluted, may be given, and the vapor of it 
cautiously inhaled. Cold affusion, and 
chloroform in half to teaspoonful doses 
in glycerine or mucilage, repeated every 
few minutes, until the symptoms are 
ameliorated. Artificial respiration. 

Aconite — Monkshood, Wolfsbane. — 
Symptoms: Numbness and tingling in 
the mouth and throat, and afterwards in 
other portions of the body, with sore 
throat, pain over the stomach, and vom- 
iting; dimness of vision, dizziness, great 
prostration, loss of sensibility, and de- 
lirium. Treatment: An emetic and 
then brandy in tablespoonful doses, in 
ice water, every half hour ; spirits of 
ammonia in half-teaspoonf ul doses in 
hke manner; the cold douche over the 
head and chest, warmth to the extrem- 
ities, etc. 

Alkalis and Their Salts — Concen- 
l ted A Lye ' Wood -ash Lye, Caustic Pot- 
ash, Ammonia, Hartshorn. — Symptoms: 
taustic, acrid taste, excessive heat m 
iHe throat, stomach, and intestines; 
vomiting of bloody matter, cold sweats, 
fjjecough, purging of bloody stools. 
J-reatmenf. The common vegetable 
acida. Common vinegar, being always 
m hand, is most frequently used. The 
jxed oils, as castor, flaxseed, almond, 
ana ohve oils form soaps with the alka- 

eff + rSS. ua also destr °y tneir caustic 
nect. They should be given in large 



quantity. 



tar ^ °. ny and Its Preparations— Tar- 
Mir. i etlc « . Antimoaial Wine, Kerme's 

ineral Symptoms: Faintness and 

™. ea - s »on followed by painful and 
con t - ■ VOITlitin K. severe diarrhea, 
thp^K Ctl ° n and burning sensation in 
e throat, cramps, or spasmodic twitel 



often terminating in death <r> str ' in 8 t ^. 
If vomiting has not kT Tr f atm ent 
should be eVeted hy tkSuf tW^' 
and administering Lp&^jS™ 
warm water. Astringent inf us? on f SUc 
as of gall, oak bark, Peruvian bark a( . 
as antidotes, and should be given prompt 
ly. Powdered yellow bark may be usV c 
until the infusion is prepared? or Ten 
strong green tea should %e given TV 
stop the vomiting, should it continue 
blister over the stomach by applying a 
cloth wet with strong spirits of hartshon 
and then sprinkle on one-eighth to 01 
fourth of a grain of morphia. 

Arsenic and Its Preparations— Rate 
bane, Fowler's Solution, Etc.— Symt 
toms: Generally within an hour pat 
and heat are felt in the stomach, soc 
followed by vomiting, with a burnii 
dryness of the throat and great thirs 
the matters vomited are generally colore 
either green yellow, or brown, and a: 
sometimes bloody. Diarrhea or dys 
entery ensues, while the pulse become 
small and rapid, yet irregular. Bieatl 
ing much oppressed; difficulty in voi 
iting may occur, while cramps, conver- 
sions, or even paralysis often precec 
death, which sometimes takes plac^ witl 
in five or six hours after arsenic has bee 
taken. Treatment : Give a promi 
emetic, and then hydrate of peroxide 
iron (recently prepared) in tablespooi 
ful doses every 10 or 15 minutes until tl 
urgent symptoms are relieved. _ In tl 
absence of this, or while it is being pre 
pared, give large draughts of new mill 
and rvw eggs, lime water and oil, meltet 
butter, magnesia in a large quantity o: 
water, or even if nothing else is at hand, 
flour and water, always^ however, giT 
ing an emetic the first thing, or causir 
vomiting bv tickling the throat with 
feather, etc. The inflammation of th€ 
stomach which follows must be treated 
by blisters, hot fomentations, muci- 
laginous drinks, and the like. 

Belladonna, or Deadly Nightshade 
Symptoms: Dryness of J [he rnouth anc 
throat, great thirst, difficulty of swal- 
lowing, nausea, dimness, confusion oi 
loss o! vision, great enlargement of the 
pupils, dizziness, de hnum and coma. 
Treatment: There is no known anti- 
dote Give a prompt emetic and tnei 
reliance must £e placed on ccntinua. 
stimulation with brandy, whisky etc. 
and to necessarv artificial respiration. 
Opium and its preparations as morphia, 
laudanum, etc., are thought by some to 



94 



anttdotes for POISONS 



^mmteroct the effect of belladonna, and 
mav be Riven in small and repeated doses, 
S also strong black coffee and green tea- 
Blue Vitriol, or Blue Stone.— See Cop- 
per. 

Cantharides (Spanish or Blistering 
Fly) and Modern Potato Bug.-Symp- 
S: Sickening odor of the breath 
sour taste, with burning heat in the 
throat, stomach, and bowels; frequent 
vomiting, often bloody; copious blood, 
stools, great pain in the stomach, with 
burning" sensation in the bladder and 
difficulty to" urinate followed with ter- 
rible convulsions, delirium, and death. 
Treatment: Excite vomiting by drinking 
plentifully of sweet oil or other whole- 
some oils, sugar and water, milk, or 
slippery-elm tea; give injections ot castor 
oil and starch, or warm milk. I he in- 
flammatory symptoms which generally 
follow must be treated by a physician. 
Camphorated oil or camphorated spirits 
should be rubbed over the bowels, stom- 
ach, and thighs. 

Caustic Potash.— See Alkalis under this 
title. 

Cobalt, or Fly Powder. — Symptoms; 
Heat and pain in the throat and stomach, 
violent retching and vomiting, cold and 
clammy skin, small and feeble pulse, 
hurried and difficult breathing, diar- 
rhea, etc. Treatment: An emetic, fol- 
lowed by the free administration of milk, 
eggs, wheat flour and water, and muci- 
laginous drinks. 

Copper — Blue Vitriol, Verdigris or 
Pickles or Food Cooked in Copper Ves- 
sels. — Symptoms: General inflamma- 
tion of the alimentary canal, suppres- 
sion of urine; hiccough, a disagreeable 
metallic taste, vomiting, violent colic, 
excessive thirst, sense of tightness of the 
throat, anxiety; faintness, giddiness, 
and cramps and convulsions generally 
precede death. Treatment: Large 
doses of simple syrup as warm as can be 
swallowed, until the stomach rejects the 
amount it contains. The whites of eggs 
and large quantities of milk. Hydrated 
peroxide of iron. 

Creosote— Carbolic Acid.— Symptoi 
Burning pain, acrid, pungent ta; 



thirst, 
ment: 



ms: 

gent taste, 
vomiting, purging, etc. Treat- 
—- An emetic and the free adminis- 
tration of albumen, as the whites of esss 
or, in the absence of these, milk, or flour 
and water. 

Corrosive Sublimate.— See Mercury 
*nder this title. ' 



Deadly Wightsbade.— See Bell».i 
tder this title. "Wado 



unde« 



n na 



Foxglove, or Digitalis.— S VTnnt 
Loss of strength, feeble, flutte r iX° ^ 
faintness, nausea and vo mi tine an 1 * 
por ; cold perspiration, dilated d,,?} 1 * 
sighing, irregular breathing, and s 1 
times convulsions. Treatment- 
vomiting give brandy and ammonia l £ 
frequently repeated doses, apply Wai l? 
to the extremities, and if necessary resin 
to artificial respiration. 11 

Gases — Carbonic Acid, Chlorine Cv 
anogen, Hydrosulphuric Acid, £tc 
Symptoms: Great drowsiness, difficult 
respiration, ieatures swollen, face bhi 
as in strangulation. Treatment: Arti! 
ficial respiration, cold douche, f rictio * 
with stimulating substances to the sm. 
face of the body. Inhalation of steaxn 
containing preparations of ammonia. 
Cupping from nape of neck. Interna 
use of chloroform. 

Hellebore, or Indian Poke. — Symp- 
toms: Violent vomiting and purging, 
bloody stools, great anxiety, tremors, 
vertigo, fainting, sinking of the pulse, 
cold sweats, and convulsions. Treat- 
ment: Excite speedy vomiting by Iarg 
draughts of warm water, molasses and 
water, tickling the throat with the finge 
or a feather, and emetics; give oily an 
mucilaginous drinks, oily purg; 
and clysters, acids, strong coffee, 
phor, and opium. 

Hemlock (Conium). — Symptoms: 
ness of the throat, tremors, dizzines 
difficulty of swallowing, prostration, an 
faintness, limbs powerless or paralyzed 
pupils dilated, pulse rapid and feeble 
insensibility and convulsions sometim 
precede death. Treatment: Empty tt 
stomach and give brandy in tablespooi 
ful doses, with half teaspoonful of spin 
of ammonia, frequently repeated, a 
if much pain and vomiting, g lve , D ' 
mide of ammonium in 5-gram . oc* 
every half hour. Artificial respirau 
may be required. 

Henbane, or Hyoscyamus. — jSy^P 
toms: Muscular twitching, ^W^d 
articulate plainly, dimness of vis . 
stupor; later, vomiting and 
small intermittent pulse, c c0D) a. 
movement of the extremities, ai igon . 
Treatment: Similar to opium p 
ing, which see. , 

Iodine. —Symptoms : B u ^? in | t SS?ch- 
throat, lacerating pain in the te „. 
fruitless effort to vomit, e - x ^ rea trae D 
derness of the epigastrium. 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



pj. e e emesis, prompt administration of 
starch, wheat flour, or arrowroot, beaten 
u p in water. 

Lead— Acetate of Lead, Sugar of Lead, 
ivy White Lead, Red Lead, Litharge, or 
Picldes, Wine, or Vinegar Sweetened by 
Lead. — Symptoms: W hen taken in lar^e 
doses, a sweet, but astringent metallic 
taste exists, with constriction in the 
throat, pain in the region of the stomach, 
painful, obstinate, and frequently bloody 
vomitings, hiccough, convulsions or 
spasms, and death. When taken in 
small but long-continued doses it pro- 
duces colic, called painters' colic; great 
pain, obstinate constipation, and in ex- 
treme cases paralytic symptoms, es- 
pecially wrist-drop, with a blue line along 
the edge of the gums. Treatment: To 
counteract the poison give alum in water 
ounce to a quart; or, better still, Ep- 
som salts or Glauber's salts, an ounce of 
cither in a quart of water; or dilute sul- 
phuric acid, a teaspoonful to a quart of 
water. If a large quantity of sugar of 
lead has been recently taken, empty the 
stomach by an emetic of sulphate of zinc 
(1 drachm in a qvr.rt oi water), giving 
one-fourth to commence, and repeating 
smaller doses until free vomiting is pro- 
duced; castor oil should be given to clear 
the bowels and injections of oil and 
starch freely administered. If the body 
is cold use the warm bath. 

Meadow Saffron.— See Belladonna. 
Laudanum. — See Opium. 

Lobelia — Indian Poke. — Symptoms : 
recessive vomiting and purging, pains 
in the bowels, contraction of the pupils, 
delirium, coma, and convulsions. Treat- 
ment: Mustard over the stomach, and 
brandy and ammonia. 

Mercury— Corrosive Sublimate (bug 
poisons frequently contain this poison), 
*ea Precipitate, Chinese or English 
vermilion.— Symptoms: Acrid, metallic 
»ste in the mouth, immediate constric- 
tion and burning in the throat, with anx- 
ety and tearing pains in both stomach 
ana bowels, sickness, and vomiting of 
JJ? 10 , us - c °lored fluids, and sometimes 
ficuh an j P ro . fuse diarrhea, with dif- 
Gni T an i P a * n in urinating; pulse 
er^rY^ 11, and haTd '- faJn t sensations, 
coS hty > diffi cult breathing, cramps, 
TVT . Sweats , syncope, and convulsions. 

teadv ?t! If v . omitin f? does al " 
wjf exist, emetics must be given im- 

larn« i y—wnite of e £8 s in continuous 
vJ^e (loses, and infusion of catechu after- 
arda, sweet milk, mixtures of flour and 



water in successive cunfnU • j x , 
excessive salivation SEt a to chcci 

chlorate of potash hi « tu JSl °? UCG ° 
and use freely as a «r«J j ° f water 

Morphine.— See Opium 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Caustic 

Symptoms: Intense pain and v omft " 
and purging of blood, mucus, aS^bS* 
of mucous membranes; and if these st^ 
hey become dark. Treatment: Gi 
freely of a solution of common salt i 
water which decomposes the poiso 
and afterwards flaxseed or sHpperv-eli 
bark tea and after a while a dose 
castor Oil. 

Opium and All Its Compounds- 
morpnme, Laudanum, Paregoric Etc - 
Symptoms: Giddiness, drowsiness *h 
creasing to stupor, and insensibi'lit 
pulse usually, at first, quick and i 
regular, and breathing hurried, ai 
afterwards pulse slow and feeble', ar. 
respiration slow and noisy; the pupils ar 
contracted and the eyes and face cor 
gested, and later, as death approache, 
the extremities become cold, the surfac 
is covered with cold, clammy perspire 
tion, and the sphincters relax. The 
fecta of opium and its preparations, 
poisonous doses, appear in from a hi 
to two hours from its administrator 
Treatment: Empty the stomach imme 
diately with an emetic or with the stoi 
ach pump. Then give very stror 
coffee without milk; put mustard plaster 
on the wrists and ankles; douche the hea 
and chest with cold water, and if tl 
patient is cold and sinking, give brandy 
or whisky and ammonia. Belladonna i 
thought by many to counteract the poi 
sonous effects of opium, and may r" 
given in doses of half to a teaspoonful 
the tincture, or 2 grains of the extract 
every 20 minutes, until some effect V 
observed in causing the pupils to 
pand. Use warmth and friction, anc 
if possible prevent sleep for some hours, 
for which purpose the patient shomd 
be walked about between two persons 
Finally, as a last resort, use artificial 
respiration, persistence in which will some- 
times be rewarded with success in a F 
parently hopeless cases. Electricity shoi 
also be tried. _ yT ... , 

Coolcy advises as follows: Vomitim 
must be induced as soon as PP^iWe, b 3 
means of a strong emetic and tickling he 
fauces. If this does not succeed, the 
stomach pump should ^ applied. The 
emetic may consist of a half drachm < 
sulphate of zinc dissolved m a half pint 
of warm water, of which one-third should 



96 



ANTIDOTES FOB POISONS 



he taken at once, and the remainder at 



commences. 



the - 

m ;mit(«i until vomiting 
When there ?s much drowliness or stupor 
I ox 3 fluidrachms of tincture > q .capsi- 
cum will be found a useful addition; or 
nnTof the formulas for emetic draughts 
may be token instead. Infusion of galls 
dJchona, or oak bark should be freely 
administered before . the emetic and 
water soured with vinegar and lemon 
jSct after the stomach has been well 
cKared out. To rouse the system 
spirit and water or strong coffee may be 
given- To keep the sufferer awake, 
rough friction should be applied to the 
skin, an upright posture preserved, and 
walking exercise enforced, if necessary. 
When this is ineffectual cold water may 
be dashed over the chest, head, and 
spine, or mild shocks of electricity may 
be had recourse to. To allow the suffer- 
er to sleep is to abandon him to destruc- 
tion. Bleeding may _ be subsequently 
necessary in plethoric habits, or m 
threatened congestion. The costiveness 
that accompanies convalescence may be 
best met by aromatic aperients; and the 
general tone of the habit restored by stim- 
ulating tonics and the shower bath. 
The smallest fatal dose of opium in the 
case of an adult within our recollection 
was 4$ grains. Children are much more 
susceptible to the action of opium than 
of other medicines, and hence the dose of 
it for them must be diminished consid- 
erably below that indicated by the com- 
mon method of calculation depending on 
the age. 

Oxalic Acid. — See Acids. 

Phosphorus — Found in Lucifer 
Matches and Some Rat Poisons. — Symp- 
toms: Symptoms of irritant poisoning; 
pain in the stomach and bowels; vomit- 
ing, diarrhea; tenderness and tension 
of the abdomen. Treatment; An emetic 
is to be promptly given; copious draughts 
containing magnesia in suspension; mu- 
cilaginous drinks. General treatment 
for inflammatory symptoms. 

Poisonous Mushrooms. — Symptoms: 
Nausea, heat and pains in the stomach 
and bowels; vomiting and purging, 
thiTst, convulsions, and faintings; pulse 
small and frequent, dilated pupil and 
stupor, cold sweats and death. Treat- 
ment: The stomach and bowels are to be 
cleared by an emetic of ground mustard 
or sulphate of zinc, followed by frequent 
doses of Glauber's or of Epsom salts, and 
large stimulating clysters. After the 
poison is evacuated, either may be given 
with small quantities of brandy and 



water. But if inflammatory s Ym . 
manifest themselves auch stimuli *ih 
be avoided, and these symptoms 1 d 
priately treated. A hypodermic iniS£°" 
of -fa gram of atropine is the latest diadowT 0 ? 
antidote. VL ™1 

Potash. — Sec Alkali. 

Prussic or Hydrocyanic Acid c 
Acids. 

Poison Ivy. —Symptoms: Contact 
with, and with many persons the near 
approach to, the vine gives rise to vio- 
lent erysipelatous inflammation, csne" 
cially of the face and hands, attended 
with itching, redness, burning, and swell 
ing, with watery blisters. Treatment. 
Give saline laxatives, and apply W ea'' 
sugar of lead and laudanum, or Hmcwate 
ana sweet oil, or bathe the parts freely wi 
spirits of niter. Anointing with oil ' 
prevent poisoning from it. 

Saltpeter (Bfitrate of Potash).— Symp. 
toms: Only poisonous in large quanti- 
ties, and then causes nausea, painfiji 
vomiting, purging, convulsions, faint- 
ness, feeble pulse, cold feet and hands, 
with tearing pains in stomach and bowels. 
Treatment: Treat as is directed for 
arsenic, for there is no antidote known, 
and emptying the stomach and bowels 
with mild drinks must be relied on. 

Savine. — Symptoms: Sharp pains in 
the bowels, hot skin, rapid pulse, violent 
vomiting and sometimes purging, with 
great prostration. Treatment: Mus- 
tard and hot fomentations over the 
stomach and bowels and ice allowed 
in the stomach only until the inflam- 
mation ceases. If prostration comes on, 
food and stimulants must he given DJ 
injection. 

Stramonium, Thorn Apple, or James- 
town Weed. —Symptoms : Vertigo, mm 
ache, perversion of vision, slight ; dear 
ium, sense of suffocation, disposition w 
sleep, bowels relaxed, and all ss f 
augmented. Treatment: ^ TVU 
belladonna. 

Snake Bites, Cure for. -The Inspect* 
of Police in the Bengal Gpyern»ent^ 
ports that of 939 cases in which ajj 
was freely administered, 207 victim^ 
recovered, and in the cured jnstoi ^ 
remedy was not administered i - 
3* hours after the attack; on tl«e » diD 
of the fatal cases the corresp 
duration of time was 4* hours. 

The en 0 

Strychnine or Nux Vomica.— in f - 
aeteristic symptom is the S P g g y|g 
ence exerted upon the nervou 



ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS 



which is manifested by a general con- 
t action of all the muscles of the body, 
• th rigidity of the spinal column. A 
nrofaund calm soon succeeds, which is 
P n oVV -ed by a new tetanic seizure, longer 
thm the first, during which the respira- 
tion is suspended. These symptoms 
then cease, the breathing becomes easy, 
and there is stupor, followed by another 
general contraction. In fatal cases 
these attacks are renewed, at intervals, 
with increasing violence, until death en- 
sues. One phenomenon which is found 
only in poisonings by substances con- 
taining strychnine is that touching any 
part of the body, or even threatening 
to do so, instantly produces the tetanic 
spasm. Antidote: The stomach should 
be immediately cleared by means of an 
emetic, tickling the fauces, etc. To 
counteract the asphyxia from tetanus, 
etc., artificial respiration should be 
practiced with diligence and care. "If 
the poison has been applied externally, 
we ought immediately to cauterize the 
part, and apply a ligature tightly above 
the wound. If the poison has been 
swallowed for some time we should give 
a purgative clyster, and administer 
draughts containing sulphuric ether or 
oil of turpentine, which in most cases 
Droducc a salutary effect. Lastly, in- 
ections of chlorine and decoction of 
tannin are of value." 

According to Ch. Gunther the great- 
est reliance may be placed on full doses 
of opium, assisted by venesection, in 
cases of poisoning by strychnia or nux 
vomica. His plan is to administer this 
drug in the form of solution or mix- 
ture, in combination with a saline ape- 
rient. 

Another treatment is to give, if obtain- 
able, 1 ounce or more of bone charcoal 
mixed with water, and follow with an 
active emetic; then to give chloroform in 
teaspoonful doses, in flour and water or 
glycerine, every few minutes while the 
spasms last, and afterwards biandy and 
stimulants, and warmth of the extremi- 
ties if necessary. Recoveries have fol- 
lowed the free and prompt administra- 
tion of oils or melted butter or lard. In 
all cases empty the stomach if possible. 

Sulphate of Zinc— White Vitriol.— See 
iinc. 

Tin— Chloride of Tin, Solution of Tin 
lused by dyers), Oxide of Tin, or Putty 
i 0 y^5 e^ • — Symptoms: Vomiting, pains 
Q the stomach, anxiety, restlessness, fre- 
quent pulse, delirium, etc. Treatment: 
^mpty the stomach, and give whites of 
e ggs in water, milk in large quantities, 



Trcat- 



or flour beaten ur i n watpr ^n, 
nesia or chalk. F ateF ' Wltt ma S" 

Tartar Emetic. -See Antimony. 

Tobacco. -Symptoms: Vertigo, stu 1 
por, fainting, nausea, vomitine 
nervous _ debility, cold sweat, 
and at times fatal prostration 
ment: After the stomach is empty anrjh 
mustard to the abdomen and to the ex- 
tremities, and give strong coffee, with 
brandy and other stimulants, with 
warmth to the extremities. 

Zinc— Oxide of Zinc, Sulphate m 
Zmc, White Vitriol, Acetate of Zinc- 
Symptoms: Violent vomiting, astrin- 
gent taste, burning pain in the stomach, 
pale countenance, cold extremities, dull 
eyes, fluttering pulse. Death seldoi 
ensues, in consequence of the emeti< 
effect. Treatment: The vomiting maj 
be relieved by copious draughts of warm 
water. _ Carbonate of soda, administered 
in solution, will decompose the sulphate 
of zinc. Milk and albumen will also ac 
as antidotes. General principles to b« 
observed in the subsequent treatment 

Woorara. — Symptoms: When takei 
into the stomach it is inert; when al 
sorbed through a wound it causes sudde 
stupor and insensibility, frothing at tl 
mouth, and speedy death. Treatment 
Suck the wound immediately, or cut 
out and tie a cord around the limb be 
tween the wound and the heart. Appbp 
iodine, or iodide of potassium, and give ' 
internally, and try artificial respiration. 

ANTIFERMENTS. 

The following are tried and usefi 
formulas: 

I. — Sulphite (not sulphate) of lime, 
in fine powder, 1 part; marble dust, 
trround oyster shells, or chalk, 7 parts 
mix, and pack tight, so as to exclude the 

ai n._ Sulphite (not sulphate) ofpotassa, 
1 part; new black-mustard seed (grountf 
in a pepper mill), 7 parts; mix, and pack 
so as to exclude afi ; and moisture ^ per- 
fectly. Dose (of either), £ ounce to 14 
ounces per hogshead. , .' 

HI.— Mustard seed, 14 pounds; clove 
and capsicum, of each, 1* pounds mi, 
and crind them to powder m a pep 
per nSlh Dose, 1 to J pound per hogs 

Aoortion of any one of these compounds 
adirto'cider, or the like soon alUy- 
fermentation, when «g7J M S 
it V>aa Vicpn renewed. J- ne nrtl1 , . 
£ Preferred when there is a tendency tc 
is pret erre °,; J nd and third may be 
Svan^eoisV Sd for wine and bee, r - 



well as for cider. The third compound 
ffreatlv improves the flavor and the ap- 
parent strength of the liquor, and also 
improves its keeping qualities. 



Anchovy Preparations 

Extemporaneous Anchovy Sauce.— 
Anchovies, chopped 

small 3 or 4 

Butter 3 ounces 

Water » ounces 

Vinegar 1 ounce 

piour 1 ounce 

Mix, place over the fire, and stir until 
the mixture thickens. Then rub through 
a coarse sieve. 

Essence of Anchovies. — Remove the 
bones from 1 pound of anchovies, reduce 
the remaining portions of the fish to a 
pulp iu a Wedgewood mortar, and pass 
through a clean hair or brass sieve. Boil 
the bones and other portions which will 
not pass through the sieve in Ipint of 
■water for 15 minutes, and strain. To 
the strained liquor add 2J ounces of salt 
and 21 ounces of flour, and the pulped 
anchovies. Let the whole simmer over 
the fire for three or four minutes; re- 
move from the fire, and when the mix- 
ture has cooled a little add 4 ounces of 
strong vinegar. The product (nearly 
8 pounds) may be then bottled, and the 
corks tied over with bladder, and either 
waxed or capsuled. 

Anchovy Paste. — 

Anchovies 7 pounds 

Water 9 pints 

Salt l pound 

Flour 1 pound 

Capsicum J ounce 

Grated lemon peel. . . 1 

Mushroom catsup. . . 4 ounces 

Anchovy Butter. — 
Anchovies, boned and 

beaten to a paste . . 1 part 

Butter 2 parts 

Spice enough 

ANTIFOULING COMPOSITIONS : 
See Paints. 

ANTIFREE ZING SOLUTION : 

See Freezing Preventives. 

ANTIFRICTION METAL: 

See Alloys, under Phosphor Bronze 
and Antifriction Metals. 



ANTIQUES, TO PRESERVE. 

The best process for the preservation 
of antique metallic articles consists in 
retransformation of the metallic oxide* 
into metal by the electrolytic methoT 
For this purpose a zinc strip i a wounri 
around the article and the latter is ] a.iH 
in a soda-lye solution of 5 per cent 
suspended as the negative pole of a small 
battery in a potassium cyanide solution 
of 2 per cent. Where this method does 
not seem practicable it is advisable to 
edulcorate the objects in running water 
in which operation fragile or easilv de- 
stroyed articles may be protected hi 
winding with gauze; next, they should 
be carefully dried, first in the air, then 
with moderate heat, and finally protected 
from further destruction by immersion 
in melted parafline. A dry place is re- 
quired for storing the articles, since par- 
affine is not perfectly impermeable to 
water in the shape of steam. 

ANTIRUST COMPOSITIONS: 

Sec Rust Preventives. 



Antiseptics 

Antiseptic Powders. — 

I. — Borax 3 

Dried alum ....... 3 

Thymol 22 

Eucalvptol 20 

Mentliol . 1| 

Phenol 15 

Oil of gaultberia. . . 4 
Carmine to give a pink tint 

II. — Alum, powdered. . 50 

Borax, powdered 50 

Carbolic acid, crystals ... 5 

Oil of eucalyptus -5 

Oil of wintergreen 5 

Menthol 5 

Thymol 5 J 

III. — Boracieacid 10 ounces 

Sodium biborate. . - 4 ounces 

Alum 1 ounce 

Zinc sulphocarbolate 1 ounce 

Thymic acid 1 drachm 

Mix thoroughly. For an antiseptic 
wash dissolve 1 or 2 drachms in a qua" 
of warm water. 

I V.— Ektogan is a new dusting P oWt \j 
which is a mixture of zinc hydroxide <i 
dioxide. It is equivalent to about 
cent of active oxygen. It is a yelloWisx« 
white odorless and tasteless powder, 
soluble in water. It is used externally. ■>» 
wounds and in skin diseases as a w ^ 
dressing mixed with citric, tartaric, 



ounces 

ounces 

grains 

drops 

grains 

grains 

dropb 



ANTISEPTICS 



&9 



n j C acid, which causes the liberation 
f oxygen. With iodides it liberates 
"odine. It ^ s stated to be strongly anti- 
septic; it is used in the form of a powder, 
a gauze, and a plaster. 

Antiseptic Pencils. — ■ 

j.— Tannin q- s. 

Alcohol, q. s 1 part 

Ether, q. s 3 parts 

JIake into a mass, using as an excip 
ient the alcohol and ether previously 
mixed. Roll into pencils of the desired 
length and thickness. Then coat with 
collodion, roll in pure silver leaf, and 
finally coat with the following solution of 
gelatine and set aside to dry: 

Gelatine 1 drachm 

Water 1 pint 

Dissolve by the aid of a genlle heat. 
When wanted for use, shave away a 
portion of the covering, dip the pencil 
into tepid water and apply. 

II. — Pencils for stopping bleeding are 
prepared by mixing: 

Purified alum. ... 480 ~\ 

Borax.. 24 

Oxide zinc , . %\ 

Thymol 8 

Formalin 4 

Melting carefully in a water bath, add- 
ing some perfume, and forming mixture 
into pencils or cones. 

A very convenient way to form into 
pencils where no mold need be made is 
to take a small glass tube, roll a piece of 
oil paper around the tube, remove the 
glass tube, crimp the paper tube thus 
formed on one end and stand it on end 
or in a bottle, and pour the melted so- 
lution in it and leave until cool, then re- 
move the paper. 

, Antiseptic Paste (Poison) for Organic 
specimens. — 

(a) Wheat flour 16 ounces 

Beat to a batter with 

cold water 16 fluidounces 

Then pour into boil- 

a r. *i Bg water 32 fluidounces 

\o) Pulverized gum ar- 
able 

Dissolve in boil- 

W Pulverized alum. . . 
Dissolve in boil- 

tJ\ \ ' ng wator 4 fluidounces 

W Acetate of lead .... 2 ounces 
Dissolve in boil- 
ing water 4 fluidounces 

\e) Corrosive sublimate 10 (Trains 
Hix (a) and (b) while hot and continue 
simmer; meanwhile stir in (c> and 



2 ounces 

4 fluidounces 
^ ounces 



to 



mix thoroughly; then add (dS 

ous. lt*J^«^^**£> 
Z^etl g ° rgMUC tl3SUe ' ^™£lt 

Mouth Antiseptics. — I. — Thymic acid 

25 centigrams (3i_g rams): h J™ « J 
3 grams (45 grams); esscnce of 
permint, 75 centigrams (10 minims^ 
tincture of eucalyptus, 15 grams (44 
drachms) ; a cohol 100 grams (3 ounces) 
I ut sufficient in a glass of water to render 
latter milky. 

II.— Tannin, 12 gratns (3 drachms); 
menthol, 8 grams (2 drachms); thvmol 
1 gram (15 grains); tincture benzoin, 6 
grams (90 minims); alcohol, 100 grams 
(3 ounces). Ten drops in a half-glassful 
of tepid water. 

See also Dentifrices for Mouth 
Washes. 

Antiseptic Paste.— Difficulty is often 
experienced in applying an antiseptic 
dressing to moist surfaces, such as the 
lips after operation for harelip. A paste 
for this purpose is described by its origi- 
nator, Socin. The composition is: Zine 
oxide, 50 parts; zinc chloride, 5 parts- 
distilled water, 50 parts. The paste is 
applied to the wound, previously dried 
by means of a brush or spatula, allowed 
to dry on, and to remain in place five ©r 
six days. It may then be removed and 
a fresh application made. 

Potassium bicar- 
bonate 32.0 grams 

Sodium benzoate . . 32.0 grams 

Sodium borate. .... 8.0 grams 

Thymol 0.2 gram 

Eucalyptol ; . . . 2.0 c. cent. 

Oil of peppermint.. 0.2 c. 

Oil of wintergreen. . 0.4 c. 

Tincture of cudbear 15.0 c. 

Alcohol 60.0 c. 

Glycerine 250.0 c. 

Water, enough to 

ma ke 1,000.0 c. centimeters 

Dissolve the salts in 650 cubic centi- 
meters of water, and the thymol, eucaJyp- 
tol, and oils in the alcohol. Mis tJje 
alcoholic solution with the ^f^,^ 
add the aqueous liquid, then the tincture 
of cudbear, and lastly enough water t© 
make 1,000 cubic centimeters. Allow 
to stand a few days, then Alter add, ng a 
little magnesium carbonate to » the falter, 
if necessary, to get a brilliant filtrate. 

This is from the Formulary of the 
Bournemouth Pharmaceutical, Associa- 
tion, as reported in the Canadian Phar- 
maceutical Associations 



cent, 
cent, 
cent, 
cent, 
cent. 



0 



ANTISEPTICS 



Alkaline Glycerine of Thymol. — 
Sodium bicarbonate. . 100 grains 

Sodium biborate 200 grains 

Sodium benzoate 80 grams 

Sodium salicylate 40 grains 

Menthol 2 grains 

Pumilio pine oil 4 minims 

Wintergrecn oil 2 minims 

Thymol 4 grains 

Eucalyptol... 12 mini ms 

\ Compound Solution of Thymol.— 
A 

Benzoic acid 64 grains 

Borax 64 grains 

Boric acid 128 grains 

Distilled water 6 ounces 

Dissolve. 

B 

Thymol 20 grains 

Menthol 6 grains 

Eucalyptol 4 minims 

Oil of wintergreen. ... 4 minims 

Oil of peppermint 2 minims 

Oil of thyme. 1 minim 

Alcohol (90 per cent) . 8 ounces 
Dissolve. 

Mix solutions A and B, make up to 
20 fluidounces with distilled water, and 
filter. 

Oil of Cinnamon as an Antiseptic. — 
Oil of cinnamon in a 9-per-cent emulsion, 
when used upon Lhe hands, completely 
sterilizes them. A 7-to 8-per-cent emul- 
sion is equal to a 1 -pet-cent solution of 
corrosive sublimate and is certainly far 
more agreeable to use. Oil of thyme in 
an 11-per-cent solution is equal to a 7-per- 
cent solution of cinnamon oil. 

Green Coloring for Antiseptic Solu- 
tions. — The safest coloring substance for 
use in a preparation intended either for 
internal administration or for applica- 
tion to the skin is the coloring matter of 
leaves, chlorophyll. A tincture of spin- 
ach or of grass made by macerating 2 
ounces of the freshly cut leaves in a pint 
of alcohol for five days will be found to 
give good results. If the pure coloring 
substance is wanted the solvent should 
be evaporated off. 

Antiseptic Bromine Solution.— 

Bromine 1 ounce 

bodium chloride 8 ounces 

Wate f 8 pints 

Dissolve the sodium chloride in the 
water and add the bromine. This solu- 
tion is to be diluted, when applied to 
broken skin surfaces, 1 part with 15 
parts of water. 

Substitute for Rubber Gloves.— Mur- 



phy has found that a 4-, 6-, or 8-Df» 
solution of gutta-percha in benzine ^if 11 * 
applied to the hands of the surce.Tn a 
the skin of the patient, will seal ih ° T 
surfaces with an insoluble, impervi 6 
and practically imperceptible coatinT' 
a coating that will not allow the sec 
tions of the skin to escape, and will * 
admit secretions, blood, or p us into H? 
crevices of the skin. At the same tin 
it does not impair the sense of touch n 
the pliability of the skin. A similar sol If 
tion in acetone also meets most of the 
requirements. 

Murphy's routine method of hand prep- 
aration is as follows: First, five to seven 
minutes' scrubbing with spirits of green 
soap and running hot water; second 
three minutes' washing with alcohol' 
third, when the hands are thoroughly 
dried, the gutta-percha solution is poured 
over the hands and forearms, care being 
taken to fill in around and beneath the 
nails. The hands must be kept exposed 
to the air with the fingers separated until 
thoroughly dry. The coating is' very 
thin and can be recognized only by its 
glazed appearance. It will resist soap 
and water, but is easily removed by wash- 
ing in benzine. The hands can he 
washed in bichloride or any of the anti- 
septic solutions without interfering with 
the coating or affecting the skin. If 
the operations be many, or prolonged, 
the coating wears away from the tips 
of the fingers, but is easily renewed. For 
the remaining portion of the hands one 
application is sufficient for a whole morn- 
ing's work. 

The 4-per -cent solution of rubber wears 
better on the tips of the fingers, in han- 
dling instruments, sponges, and tissues 
than the acetone solution. 

For the abdomen the acetone solution 
has the advantage, and it dries in three 
to four seconds after its application, 
while the benzine solution takes from 
three to four and a half minutes to make 
a dry, firm coating. , . . 

The preparation of the patient s skin 
consists iu five minutes' scrubbing y ltn 
spirits of green soap, washing with ether, 
followed by alcohol. The surface is Jlicn 
swabbed over thoroughly with the ben- 
zine or acetone solution. j 

The gutta-percha solution is prepa r 
by dissolving the pure gutta-percha cui^ 
in sterile benzine or acetone. x , , g 
solutions do not stand boiling, « a * q{ 
impairs the adhesiveness and elasticity 
the coating. 

ANTISEPTICS FOR CAGED Bl&> S: 

See Veterinary Formulas. 



ANTISEPTICS 



10 



ANTS (TERMITES), TO PRE- 
VENT: 

Termites, or destructive white ants are 
, pj Ca ] insects which bore into the wood 
and eat the inside leaving only the outer 
s I ie IJ. At certain times of the year, the 
destructive little insects leave the wood 
on w hich they subsist and go into the 
ground. The times they do this can he 
Earned by watching them. When they 
so into the ground the householder whose 
house has been attacked by them should 
watch where they enter. Then all that is 
necessary is to pour over the ground 
within a radius of two or three feet a 
generous amount of paradichlorbenzene 
dissolved in kerosene. The proportion is 
iy s pounds paradichlorbemene (com- 
monly called PDB) to 1 gallon kerosene. 
The paradichlorbenzene is one of the best 
fumigants and kerosene alone kills the 
termites by contact, so that the combina- 
tion means positive death to them. 

ARSENICAL WEED KILLER: 

Arsenous anhydride. 28 ounces 
Sodium hydroxide . . 17% ounces 

Crude phenol 2% ounces 

Water to make 100 ounces 

Heat the arsenic with the caustic soda, 
that is the sodium hydroxide in 75 ounces 
of water until dissolved. Add the phenol 
and enough water to make the weight 
100 ounces. One gallon of this fluid should 
be diluted with 25 gallons of water for 
use. 100 gallons of this fluid diluted as 
shown above is enough for 50 square 
yards. 

ASPHALT IN PAINTING-: 

See Paint. 

ASPHALT VARNISHES: 

See Varnishes. 

ASSAYING : 
See Gold. 

ASTHMA CURES. — Asthma Paper 3— 
J --Impregnate bibulous paper with the 
knowing: Extract of stramonium, 10; 
potassium nitrate, 17; sugar, 20; warm 
water, 200 parts. Dry. 

II.—Blotting or gray filter paper, 120; 
Potassium nitrate, 60; powdered bella- 
donna leaves, 5; powdered stramonium 
leaves, 5 ; powdered digitalis leaves, 3; 
Powdered lobelia, 5; myrrh, 10; oli- 
anum, 10; pheUandrium fruits, 5 parts. 
stramonium Candle. — Powdered stra- 
monium leaves, 120; potassium nitrate, 
*. Peruvian balsam, 8; powdered sugar, 
*. Powdered tragaeanth, 4 parts. (Water, 
and d ^ iass; ro ^ * nto 8U ^table shapes 



belladonna leaved 15 If 5 P? wd . ere 
2; potassium n&e, V ° Wdwed ° piUm 

Aihma Fumigating Powders — T, 
Powdered stramonium leaves, 4 no 
dered aniseed, 2; potassium nitra?e° 

. II.— Powdered stramonium, 30- no" 
sium nitrate, 5; powdered tea, 15- no 
dered eucalyptus leaves, IS; powder 
Indian hemp, 15; powdered lobelia 1 
powdered aniseed, 2; distilled water 
parts. (All the herbal ingredients 
coarse powder; moisten with the water 
which the potassium nitrate has be 
previously dissolved, and dry.) 

. Schijf matin's Asthma Powder. — Pot- 
sium nitrate, 25; stramonium, 70; bell 
donna leaves, 5 parts. 

_ Neumeyer s Asthma Powder. — Pota 
sium nitrate, 6 parts; sugar, 4; stram 
nium, 6; powdered lobelia, 1. 

Fischer's Asthma Powder. — Stram. 
nium, 5 parts; potassium nitrate, 1; po 
dered Achillea millefolium leaves, 1. 

V orlaender' $ Asthma Powder. — Str 
monium, 150; lobelia, 80; arnica flowe 
80; potassium nitrate, 30; potassiu 
iodide, 3; naphthol, 1,100 parts. 

Asthma Cigarettes . — I . — B ella d on 
leaves, 5 parts; stramonium leaves, 

fmrts; digitalis leaves, 5 parts; sa 
eaves, 5 parts; potassium nitrate, 
parts; tincture of benzoin, 40 parts; bo 
ing water, 1,000 parts. Extract t 
leaves with the boiling water, filter, a 
in the filtrate dissolve the salts. I 
merse in the fluid sheets of bibulo 
paper (Swedish filter paper will a 
swer) and let remain for 24 hours, 
the end of this time remove, dry, cut in 
pieces about 2f by 4 inches, and roll m 
cigarettes. 

II. —Sodium arseniate, 3 grams; e 
tract of belladonna, 8 grains; extract 
stramonium, 8 grains. Dissolve the a 
seniate of sodium in a small quantity 
water, and rub it with the two extrac 
Then soak up the whole mixture wi 
fine blotting paper, which is dnedan 
cut into 24 equal parts. . Each part 
rolled up in a piece of cigarette pape 
Four or five inhalations are general! 
sufficient as a dose. 

ASTHMA IN CANARIES: 

Sec Veterinary Formulas. 

ASTRINGENT FOR HORSES: 
See Veterinary Formulas. 

ATOMIC WEIGHTS: 

See Weights and Measures. 



102 



BAKING POWDERS 



ATROPINE, ANTIDOTE TO. 

The usual physiological antidotes to 
e mydriatic alkaloids from belladonna, 
stramonium, and liyoscyamus are mor- 
phine or eserine. Strong tea, coflce, or 
brandy are usually administered as stim- 
ulants. Chief reliance has usually been 
placed upon a stomach siphon and 
plenty of water to wash out the contents 
of the stomach. The best antidote ever 
reported was that of muscarine extracted 
by alcohol from the mushroom, Amanita 
muscaria, but the difficulty of securing 
the same has caused it to be overlooked 
and almost forgotten. Experiments 
with this antidote showed it to be an al- 
most perfect opposite of atropine m its 
effects upon the animal body and that 
it neutralized poisonous doses. 

AROMATIC WATER. — 

Cinnamon bark, Chinese 3 parts 

Lavender flowers 5 parts 

Peppermint leaves .... 5 parts 

Rosemary leaves 5 parts 

Sage leaves 10 parts 

Fennel seeds 3 parts 

Alcohol 70 parts 

Water 300 parts 

Macerate the drugs in the mixed alco- 
hol and water for 24 hours and distill 
200 parts. 

AQUA REGIA. — Aqua regia consists 
in principle of 2 parts of hydrochloric acid 
and 1 part of nitric acid. But this quan- 
tity varies according to the shop where it 
is used for gilding or jewelry, and some- 
times the proportion is brought to 4 parts 
of hydrochloric acid to 1 of nitric acid. 

AUTOMOBILE WAX PASTE 
POLISH: 

10 pounds carnauba wax 

5 pounds ceresin wax 

6 pints naphtha 

3 gallons turpentine 
Melt together in a steam jacketed ket- 
tle and stir while cooling; pour into cans 
just before mixture clouds. 



Baking Powders 

, --Tartaric acid, 3 parts; sodium 
bicarbonate, 1 part; starch, 0.75 part. 

required 



Of this baking 1 powder the required 
amount for 500 parts of flour is about 

tear? cake Cake ' auU 15 parts for 

. r Tl ' C substances employed must be 
<Ky. each having been previously sifted 



by itself, so that no coarse piece* 
present; the starch is mixed with *v? 
sodium bicarbonate before the ac' l • 
added. When large Quantities are Sr? 
pared the mixing is done by machin 
smaller quantities are best mixed t 
gether in a spacious mortar, and 
passed repeatedly through a sieve T 
stead of starch, flour may be used hi 
starch is preferable, because it hite 
feres with the action of the acid on ilT 
alkali. e 

i il t1 fo T r T m > la , gr? 08 ?? by Cra ^p- 

ton, of the United States Department of 
Agriculture, as the result of an investi- 
gation of the leading baking powders of 
the market, is: 

Potassium bitarlrate.. . 2 parts 
Sodium bicarbonate. . , 1 part 
Cornstarch l p ar t 

The addition of the starch serves the 
double^ purpose of a " filler" to increase 
the weight of the powder and as a pre- 
servative. A mixture of the chemicals 
alone does not keep well. 

The stability of the preparation is in- 
creased by drying each ingredient sepa- 
rately by exposure to a gentle heat, mixing 
at once, and immediately placing in bot- 
tles or cans and excluding access of air 
and consequently of moisture. 

This is not a cheap powder; but it is 
the best that can be made, as to health- 
fulness. 

III. — Sodium acid phos- 

phate 20 parts 

Calcium acid phos- 
phate 20 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 25 parts 

Starch 35 parts 

Caution as to drying the ingredients 
and keeping them dry must be observed. 
Even the mixing should be done in a 
room free from excessive humidity. 

IV. — Alum Baking Powder.— 

Ammonium alum, 

anhydrous ...... 15 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate 18 parts 
Cornstarch, q. s. to make 100 parts. 
Mix. The available carbon dioxide 
yielded is 7^ per cent or 8 per cent. 

BALANCE SPRING: 

See Watchmakers" Formulas. 

BALDNESS : 

See Hair Preparations. 

BALL BLUE: 

See Laundry Preparations. 

BALSAMS : 

See also Ointments. 



BALSAMS 



10S 



^ild-Cheny Balsam. - 

^Id-cherry bark. . 
licorice root 



1 ounce 

1 ounce 

Ipecac JS UnC if 

Bloodroot J drachm 

Sassafras.... 1 drachm 

Compound tincture 

0 f opium 1 fluidounce 

Fluid extract of 

cubeb * bui drachms 

lffoisten the ground drugs with the 
fl Jd extract and tincture and enough 
Struum consisting of 25 per cent 
Seohol, and after six or eight houi 



1 drachm 
30 minims 
q. s. 

1 drachm 



~jrs paclc 

via percolator, and pour on menstruum 
Srtil percolation begins. Then cork the 
Jifice cover the percolator, and allow to 
macerate for 24 hours. _ Then percolate 
to 10 fluidounces, pouring back the hrst 
portion of percolate until it comes through 
clear. In the percolate dissolve i ounce 
of ammonium chloride and £ pound of 
sugar by cold percolation, adding simple 
syrup to make 16 fluidounces. Finally 
add 1 fluidrachm of chloroform. 

Balsam Spray Solution,— 

Oil of Scotch pine ... 30 minims 
Oil of eucalyptus .... 
Oil of cinnamon .... 
Menthol crystals. . . . 
Flui d extract of balm- 
of-Gilead buds . . . 
Tincture of benzoin, 

enough to make . . 4 ounces 
This formula can, of course, be modi- 
fied to suit your requirements. The oils 
of eucalyptus and cinnamon can be omit- 
ted and such quantities of tincture of 
tolu and tincture of myrrh incorporated 
as may be desired. 

Birch. Balsam. — 

Parts by 
weight 

Alcohol 30,000 

Birch juice 3,000 

Glycerine 1,000 

Bergamot oil 90 

Vanillin 10 

Geranium oil 50 

Water 14,000 

B 1NG NA EXTRACT FOR PAINT - 

Amyl acetate % ounce 

Butyric ether 60 minums 

Alcohol io ounces 

Water, to make .... 16 ounces 
sb?' h J S snould be mixed and allowed to 

Prin - for three davs and thcn flltered ' 
'napally used for painting radiators. 



B f!!sh T :° NIC F °* SLABBT 

White vinegar i pint 

S^ emar y 2 Srachms 

p e ; 2 drachms 

C^P^ 2 drachms 

Lavender 2 drachmfi 

Let the herbs soak in the vinegar for 

% t^ S ' th ? s ^ ain trough cheese- 
cloth, bottle and add to the bath Thi 1 
tonic can be used three times a week ii 
a warm bath. 

Tingly hot baths should not be taker 
Cold sponges will work miracles. There 
may be a warm bath at night, but onlj 
a few degrees above tepid, otherwise 
your flesh will continue to hang upon 
you, instead of firmly padding you. The 
cold sponge or shower every morning ii 
one of the greatest of all tissue bracers 
BATH TABLETS, EFFERVESCENT. 

Tartaric acid 10 parts 

Sodium bicarbonate. . 9 parts 
Rice flour 6 parts 

A few spoonfuls of this, when stirred 
into a bathiubful of water, causes a co- 
pious liberation of carbon dioxide, which 
is refreshing. This mixture can be made 
into tablets by compression, moistening, 
if necessary, with alcohol. Water, of 
course, cannot be used in making them, 
as its presence causes the decomposition 
referred to. Perfume may be added to 
this powder, essential oils being a good 
form. Oil of lavender would be a su 
able addition, in the proportion of 
fluidrachm or more to the pound ol 
powder. A better but more expensive 
perfume may be obtained by mixing 1 
part of oil of rose geranium with 8 parte 
of oil of lavender. A perfume still more 
desirable may be had bj 'adding am g 
ture of the oils from which Cologne water 
S made. For an ordinary quality the 



following will suffice: 



4 fluidraehms 
4 fluidraehms 
1 fTuidouncc 
g fluidounces 
30 minims 



Oil of lavender. 
Oil of rosemary. 
Oil of bergamot. 
Oil of lemon 

be taken: 

Oil of neroli 

Oil of rosemary. . 
Oil of bergamot.. 

Oil of eedrat • 

Oil of orange peel 

the case of .la vender. use din; 



6 fluidraehms 
S fluidraehms 
3 fluidraehms 

7 fluidraehms 
7 fluidraehms 

of thes 



104 



BATTERY FILLERS 



vescent) made by ^S^^PJl^ ° f 
powdered soap and powdered borax. 

BATH-TUB ENAMEL: 

See Varnishes. 

BATH-TUB PAINTS: 
See Paint. 

BATTERY FILLERS AND SOLUTIONS. 

I —In the so-called dry batteries the 
exciting substance is a paste instead of 
a fluid; moisture is necessary to cause 
the reaction. These pastes are gener- 
ally secret preparations. One oi the 
earlier "dry" batteries is that of Gassner. 
The apparatus consists of a containing 
vessel of zinc, which forms the positive 
element; the negative one is a cylinder 
of carbon, and the apace between is 
filled with a paste, the recipe for which is: 

Oxide of zinc 1 part 

Sal ammoniac 1 part 

Plaster.. 3 parts 

Chloride of zinc 1 part 

Water 2 parts 

The usual form of chloride-of -silver 
battery consists of a sealed cell contain- 
ing a zinc electrode, the two being gen- 
erally separated by some form of porous 
septum. Around the platinum or silver 
electrode is cast a quantity of silver 
chloride. This is melted and general- 
ly poured into molds surrounding the 
metallic electrode. The exciting fluid 
is either a solution of ammonium chlo- 
ride, caustic potassa, or soda, or zinc 
sulphate. As ordinarily constructed, 
these cells contain a paste of the electro- 
lyte, and are sealed up hermetically in 
glass or hard-rubber receptacles. 

.II. — The following formula is said to 
yield a serviceable filling for dry batteries: 

Charcoal 3 ounces . 

Graphite 1 ounce 

Manganese dioxide.. . 3 ounces 

Calcium hydrate 1 ounce 

Arsenic acid 1 ounce 

Glucose mixed with 

dextrine or starch . . 1 ounce 
Intimately mix, and then work into a 
paste of proper consistency with a sat- 
urated solution of sodium and ammo- 
mum chlorides containing one-tenth of 
its volume of a mercury-bichloride solu- 
tion and an equal volume of hydrochloric 
acid Add the fluid gradually, and well 
work up the mass. 

III.— Calcium chloride, 

crystallized 30 parts 

Calcium chloride, 

granulated 30 parts 

Ammonium sulphate 15 parts 
4inc sulDhate 25 parts 



ost 



Solutions for Batteries The a l 

exclusively employed solution of sal 
moniac .(ammonium chloride) m- am ~ 
the drawback that the zinc rods «1 i te 
etc., after a short use, become' cW^i 
with a fine, yellow very difficultly I!? 
uble, basic zinc salt, whereby the 
eration of the electric current is ham? pj* 
and finally arrested altogether Tr 
evil may be remedied by an admixture 3 
cane sugar For a battery of ordinal 
size about 20 to 25 grams of sugar di=f 
solved in warm water, is sufficient n 
60 to 60 grams of sal ammoniac Aft 
prolonged use only large crystals foff 
zinc saccharate) form, which, however 
become attached only to the zinc rod in 
a few places, having very little disad- 
vantageous effect upon the action of the 
batteries and being easy to remove, owing 
to their ready solubility. * 

TEST PAPER FOR DETERMIN 
ING ELECTRIC POLARITY: 

Moisten filter paper with a 1 per cent 
solution of phenolphthalcin in alcohol and 
| allow to dry. Dip the paper in a 10 per 
1 cent solution of potassium chloride in 
I distilled water. For use wet the paper 
1 and apply to the two terminals. The 
negative side will turn pink. 

BAY RUM: 

I. — Oil of bay 1 drachm 

Alcohol 18 ounces 

Water IS ounces 

Mix and filter through magnesia. 

II.- Bay-leaf otto Vz ounce 

Magnesium carbonate. y% ounce 

Jamaica rum 2 pints 

Alcohol 3 pints 

Water 3 pints 

Triturate the otto with the magnesium 
carbonate, gradually adding the other 
ingredients, previously mixed, and filter. 
If the rum employed contains sufficient 
sugar or mucilaginous matter to cause 
any stickiness to be felt on the skin, rec- 
tification will be necessary. 

BEARING METAL: . , 

See Babbitt Metal, Bearing Metal, ana 
Phosphor Bronze, under Alloys. 

BEDBUG DESTROYERS: 

See Insecticides. 

BEEF. IRON, AND WINE. 

Extract of beef , . . - 512 grains 
Delannated sherry 

wine 26 ounces 

Alcohol 4 ounces 

Citrate of iron and . 

ammonia. . . 

256 gnuns 

Simple sirup 12 ounces 



r 



BELT PASTES 



105 



2 ounces 



Tincture of orange. 
Tincture of carda- 

mom co... 1 ounce 

ntricacid 10 grams 

Water, enough to make 4 pmts 
t f stand 24 hours, agitate frequently, 
n d filter- See that the orange is fresh. 



REEF PEPTOKOIDS : 

See Peptonoids. 
B EEF PRESERVATIVES: 
gee Foods. 

BEEF TEA: 

g ce Beverages. 

BEERS, ALCOHOL IN: 

See Alcohol. 
BEER, GINGER, HOP-BITTER, 
SCOTCH, AND SPRUCE: 

See Beverages. 
BEER, RESTORATION OF SPOILED. 

I —Powdered chalk is poured into the 
cask and allowed to remain in the beer 
until completely precipitated. > _ 

II. — The liquor of boiled raisms may 
be poured into the beer, with the result 
that the sour taste of the beer is disguised. 

III. — A small quantity of a solution of 
potash will remove the sour taste of 
beer. Too much potash must not be 
added; otherwise the stomach will suffer. 
Bcct thus restored will not keep long. 

IV. — If the beer is not completely 
spoiled it may be restored by the addi- 
tion of coarsely powdered charcoal. 

V. — If the addition of any of the above- 
mentioned substances should affect the 
taste of the beer, a, little powdered zingi- 
ber may be used to advantaged Syrup 
or molasses may also be employed. 

BEES, FOUL BROOD IN. 

"Foul brood" is a contagious disease 
to which bees are subject. It is caused 
by bacteria and its presence may be 
kaown by the bees becoming languid, 
^ark, stringy, and elastic masses are 
Jjrnid in the bottom of the cells, while 
caps are sunken or irregularly punc- 
ured. Frequently the disease is said to 
accompanied by a peculiar offensive 
Prompt removal of diseased col- 
o. u eir transfer to clean and thor- 
Hf- y 4 lsint «cted hives, and feeding on 
th e Se ^ tlCa ^^ treated honey or syrup are 
cur mft f na taken for the prevention and 
used til6 ' disease - The antiseptics 
forrn- are Sauc yhc acid, carbolic acid, or 
*£?Z aC l d ', S P ra y in £ the brood with 
a ndf A> tnese remedies in a solution 
c&to,^ . n £ with a honey or syrup medi- 
18 ,3 w . lth them will usually be all that 
squired by way of treatment. It is 



also said that access to salt • 
portant for the health of beel 1 



is im- 



BEETLE POWDER; 

See Insecticides.. 

BELL METAL: 

See Alloys. 

BELLADONNA, ANTIDOTES TO • 

See Antidotes and Atropine. 

BELT PASTES FOR INCREASING 
ADHESION. 

Tallow. ; 50 parts 

Castor oil, crude 20 parts 

Fish oil &o parts 

Colophony 10 parts 

Melt on a moderate fire and stir until 
the mass cools. 

II.— Melt 250 parts of gum elastic 
with 250 parts of oil of turpentine in an 
iron, _ well-closed crucible at 122° F. 
(caution!) and mix well with 200 parts of 
colophony. After further melting add 
200 part? of yellow wax and stir carefully. 
Melt in 750 parts of heated train oil, 
250 parts of tallow, and to this add, with 
constant stirring, the first mixture when 
the latter is still warm, and let cool slowly 
with stirring. This grease is intended 
for cotton belts. 

III. — Gutta-percha 40 parts 

Rosin 10 parts 

Asphalt 15 parts 

Petroleum 60 parts 

Heat in a glass vessel on the water 
bath for a few hours, until a uniform so- 
lution is obtained. Let cool and add 15 
parts of carbon disulphide and allow the 
mixture to stand, shaking it frequently. 

Directions for Use.— The leather belts 
to be cemented should first be roughened 
at the joints, and after the cement has 
been applied they should be subjected 
to a strong pressure between warm 
rollers, whereupon they will adhere to 
gether with much tenacity. 

Preservation of Belts.-In a weO<ovj 
ered iron vessel heat at a 3 
50° C. (152° F.) 1 pajt tyj*% ith j. 
caoutchouc, cut m ^^Spentine. 
part by weight of rec 1 lv * ed add 
When the caoutchouc is diss ^ ^ 
0.8 part of ^ophony, ju ^ Q , 
dissolved and add Y nt o another vessel 
part of yellow wax. Into an „ 

& suitable f«£ B Jdffithe»rt«« 
add 1 part of tallow, ana on 

until fie tallow is melted ^tM^ ^ 
ZS&^&^Z* to be rubbed 



106 



BENZINE 



od the inside of the belts from time to 
time, while they are in use. 'Ihe belts 
run easily and do not slip. The grease 
may also serve for improving old belts. 
For this purpose the grease should be 
rubbed on both sides in a warrn place. 
A first layer is allowed to soak in, and 
another applied. 

To Make a Belt Pull.— Hold a piece of 
tar soap on the inside of the belt while it 
is running. 

BELT CEMENT: 

See Adhesives. 

BELT GLUE : 

See Adhesives. 

BELT LUBRICANT: 

See Lubricants. 

BENEDICTINE : 

See Wines and Liquors. 

Benzine 

Benzine, to Color Green. — Probably 
the simplest and cheapest as well as the 
best method of coloring benzine green is 
to dissolve in it sufficient oil soluble aniline 
green of the desired tint to give the re- 
quired shade. 

Purification of Benzine. — Ill-smelling 
benzine, mixed with about 1 to 2 per rent 
of its weight of free fatty acid, will dis- 
solve therein. One-fourLh per cent of 
tannin is added and all is mixed well. 
Enough potash or soda lye, or even lime 
milk, is added until the fatty acids are 
saponified, and the tannic acid is neu- 
tralized, shaking repeatedly. After a 
while the milky liquid separates into two 
layers, viz., a salty, soapy, mud-sediment 
and clear, colorless, and almost odorless 
benzine above. This benzine, filtered, 
may be employed for many technical 
purposes, but gives an excellent, pure 
product upon a second distillation. 

Fatty acid from tallow, olive oil, or 
other fats may be used, but care should 
he taken that they have as slight an odor 
of rancid fat as possible. The so-called 
elaine or olein — more correctly oleic acid 
—of the candle factories may likewise 
be empjoyed, but it should first be agi- 
tated with a tV- percent soda solution to 
get rid of the baei-srnelling fatty acids, 
especially the butyric acid. 

The Prevention of the Inflammability 
of Benzine.— A mixture of 9 volumes 
tetrachloride and 1 volume of benzine is 
practicably inflammable. The fla me is 
soon extinguished by itself. 



Substitute for Benzine as a eio*„ • 
Agent.— cans "lg 

I. — Chloroform 7t R 

Ether ; JJPJ? 

Alcohol e io 

Decoction of quillaya 
Mix . Wk 2 *.500parti 

II. — Acetic ether, tech- 

nically pure i 0 parts 

Amyl acetate i 0 partg 

Ammonia water \o 

Alcohol dilute 7q parts 

Mix. 

III. — Acetone i patt 

Ammonia water i p ar ^ 

Alcohol dilute 1 part 

Mix. 

Deodorizing Benzine. — 

I. — Benzine 20 ounces 

Oil of lavender. . . 1 fluidrachm 

Potassium dichro- 

mate 1 ounce 

Sulphuric acid. . . 1 fluidounce 

Water 20 fluidouuees 

Dissolve the dichromate in the water, 
add the acid and, when the solution is 
cold, the benzine. Shake every hoi 
during the day, allow to stand all night 
decant the benzine, wash with a pint ot 
water and again decant, then add the oi 
of lavender, 

II. — First add to the benzine 1 to 2pe 
cent of oleic acid, which dissolves. The 
about a quarter of 1 per cent of tannin is 
incorporated by shaking. A sufficient 
quantity of caustic potassa solution, or 
milk of lime, to combine with the acids 
is then well shaken into the mixture, 
and the whole allowed to stand. The 
benzine rises to the top of the water? 
fluid, sufficiently deodorized and decol- 
orized for practical purposes. 

III. — To 1,750 parts of water add m 
parts of sulphuric acid, and when it W 
cooled down add 30 parts of P otassul L 
permanganate and let dissolve. A| 
this solution to 4,500 parts of benzine 
stir well together, and set aside tor- 
hours. Now decant the benzine ana J 
it add a solution of 7* parts of P otas ,^J 
permanganate and 15 parts ot soa • 
hydrate in 1,000 parts of water, ana u-^ 
tate the substances well together, 
stand until the benzine separates, 
draw off. . „ a „■ , 

IV. -Dissolve 3 parts of "t ^fjT 
18 parts of sodium hydrate in 40 p»« | 
water. Add this to 200-250 P a " c 
benzine and agitate well together i - ^ 
minutes, then let settle and dra * - t „ t jtig 
benzine. Rinse the latter by ag" 



BEVERAGES 



, plenty of clear water, let settle, 
it fj the benzine, and, if necessary, 
operation. 
wttNE CLEANING- WITH: 
BE n *^i e aning Preparations and Meth- 

e „j„ r Miscellaneous Methods. 
ods» un 



See 



BENZINE, NON-EXPLOSIVE: 

B n se ordinary benzine and 25 per cent 
* rarbon tetrachloride. This makes a 
Wonderful spot remover. 
BENZOPARAL: 

a neutral, bland, oily preparation of 
, useful for applying various 

JSE<» by the aid of an atomiser 
Sulizer, or vaporizer. Can be used 
Slain or in combination with other easily 
dissolved medieinals. 

Paraffine, liquid 16 ounces 

Gum benzoin 1 ounce 

Digest on a sand bath for a half hour 
and filter. 

Beverages 

GETGER ALE AND GINGER BEER: 
OLd-Fashioned Ginger Beer. — 

Lemons, large and 

sound 6 only 

Ginger, bruised . 3 ounces 

Sugar 6 cups 

Yeast, compressed ... \ cake 

Boiling water 4 gallons 

Water enough 

Slice the lemons into a large earthen- 
ware vessel, removing the seed. Add the 
ginger, sugar, and water. When the 
mixture has cooled to lukewarm ness, add 
the yeast, first diffused in a little water. 
Cover the vessel with a piece of cheese 
cloth, and let the beer stand 24 hours. 
At the end of that time strain and bottle 
it. Cork securely, hut not so tightly that 
the bottles would break before the corks 
would fly out, and keep in a cool place. 

Ginger Beer.— Honey gives the bever- 
age a peculiar softness and, from not 
Having fermented with yeast, is the less 
Solent in its action when opened. In- 
gredients; White sugar, \ pound; honey, 
r°<K n ^' bruised ginger, 5 ounces; juice 
w sufficient lemons to suit the taste; water, 
*| gallons. Boil the ginger in 3 quarts 
H the wa ter for half an hour, then add 
™ e gmger, lemon juice, and honey, with 

;? e remainder of the water; then strain 
plough a cloth . when cald> add the 

Huarter of the white of an egg and a tea- 
*k°i of es sence of lemon. Let the 
stand for four days before bot- 



tling 
dre< 



h This quantity ^ make a 



10? 



bun- 



Ginger Beer without Yeast.— 

Ginger, bruised ^ pounds 

Le g mon,- *° *° Unds 



Honey . 
Water. 



'*■••■•» 1 dozen 
........ 1 pound 

enough 

Boil the ginger in 3 gallons of water 
for half an hour; add the sugar, the 
lemons (bruised and sliced), the honey 
and 17 gallons of water. Strain an<L 



Package Pop. — 

Cream of tartar. ..... 3 ounces 

Ginger, bruised . 1 ounce 

Sugar. . 24 ounces 

Citric acid. . £ drachms 

Put up in a package, and direct that it 
be shaken in gallons of boiling water, 
strained when cooled, fermented with 1 
ounce of yeast, and bottled. 

Ginger- Ale Extract. — 

I. — Jamaica ginger, 

coarse powder. . 4 ounces 
Mace, powder.. . . £ ounce 
Canada snakeroot, 

coarse powder. . 60 grains 

Oil of lemon 1 fluidrachm 

Alcohol 12 fluidounces 

Water 4 fluidounces 

Magnesium car- 
bonate or puri- 
fied talcum l av. ounce 

Mix the first four ingredients, an< 
make 16 fluidounces of tincture wit 1 
the alcohol and water, by percolatioi 
Dissolve the oil of lemon in a small quar 
tity of alcohol, rub with magnesia or ta 
cum, add gradually with constant trit- 
uration the ^ c t ur % a A^ Lt a e d din ] h 
extract may be fortified by «g*ng 
avoirdupois ounces of powdered grams 
of paradise to the gmgei etc., of tM 
above before extraction with alcohol am 

water. 
IL-Capsicum, coarse 

6 Pints 

Water .... ■ - • — g g ui<Jo unces 
Essence of gmger. a fl - dounce£ 
Diluted alcohol. . . < g" id nces 
Vanilla extract... * ££™ 

Oil of lemon 2 ? Sounce 

BoU ( ^-oumw^ S ^rt^ 
hours, occasionally regj^ng ^ 
lost by evaporation ^ej 0 he 
the filtrate on a ho ^ » Ad th e remai* 
sistency of a thin > 
iig ingredients, and filter. 



