thod owes its value to the fact 
W Microorganisms, like larger forms 
*" i t life will not grow below a cer- 
of - P tpmoerature, the necessary degree of 

ta 'i j Irving * itil thc s P ecies - So £ar as 
c Iment shows, it is impossible to kill 
IS minute plants popularly called 
SSeria" or "germs," by any degree of 
U- and so, very low temperature is 
Pessary for preserving eggs, even if 
wire not undesirable for other reasons, 
it". Viv frppv.mc and ln- 



ciich as injury „ _ 
s ' - x According to a report of 



by freezing 
leased cost. Aceor 

the Canadian commission of agriculture 

and dairying: 

E S2 S are sometimes removed from the 
shells and stored in bulk, usually on a 
commercial scale, in cans containing 
about 50 pounds each The tempera- 
ture recommended is about 30 J}., or a 
little below freezing, and it is said they 
will keep any desired length of time. 
They must be used soon after they have 
been removed from storage and have 
been thawed. 

Water glass or soluble glass is the 
popular name for potassium silicate, or 
sodium silicate, the commercial article 
often being a mixture of the two. The 
commercial water glass is used for pre- 
serving eggs, as it is much cheaper 
than the chemically pure article which 
is required for many scientific pur- 
poses. Water glass is commonly sold in 
two forms, a syrup-thick liquid of about 
the consistency of molasses, and a pow- 
der. The thick syrup, the form perhaps 
most usually seen, is sometimes sold 
wholesale as low as If cents per pound 
in carboy lots. The retail price varies, 
though 10 cents per pound, according to 
tie North Dakota Experiment Station, 
seems to be the price commonly asked. 
According to the results obtaine'd at this 
station a solution of the desired strength 
™ preserving eggs may be made by dis- 
solving l part of the syrup-thick water 
W ft 111 10 P arts > by measure, of water, 
te ' ^r ater "^ ass powder is used, less is 
quired for a given quantity of water. 
[ uch of the water glass offered for sale 
taline - Such material should 
will l* S f ^' as tne e Sg s preserved in it 
8hm \a ' u ep weu - 0lH y P ure ^ ater 
and - t used !n making the solution, 
18 V 3t to boil it and cool it before 
l £*g with the water glass. 
h 0u i! e , solution should be carefully 
abl e 7 ° V ? r the e Sg s Packed in a suit- 
8 *eet j ■< wl " ch mus t be clean and 
Used " wooden ke^s or barrels are 
before ey ?^° uld be thoroughly scalded 
PacWi Pa ° % the c £g s in them. 
^ eggs sliould be stored in 



The 
a cool 



warm" «W? J™ P ^ aCed where i* « too 
warm, silicate deposits on the sh^ll »„A 

n n ?* kee a ^11. The North 

Dakota Experiment fetation found it best 
not to wash the eggs before packing „ 
this removes the natural muciSoS 
coating on the outside of the she 1 g The 
station states that 1 gallon of the solution 
is sufficient for 50 dozen eggs if they are 
properly packed. S 7 te 

It is, perhaps, too much to expect tha 
eggs packed in any way win De just ag 
satisfactory for table use as the fresh 
article. The opinion seems to be, how 
ever, that those preserved with wate 
glass are superior to most of those pre- 
served otherwise. The shells of eggs 
preserved in water glass are apt to crack 
m boiling. It is stated that this may be 
prevented by puncturing the blunt end 
of the egg with a pin before putting i 
into the water. 

To Discover the Age of Eggs.— T 

most reliable method of arriving at th 
age of hens' eggs is that by sped 
gravity. Make a solution of cooking sa 
(sodium chloride) in rain or distille 
water, of about one part of salt to tw 
parts of water, and in this place the eg 
to be tested. A perfectly fresh egg (o 
from 1 to 36 hours old) will sink com 
pletely, lying horizontally on the botto 
of the vessel; when from two to thr 
days old, the egg also sinks, but not to t 
bottom, remaining just below the su 
face of the water, with a slight tenden 
of the large end to rise. In eggs of fo 
or five days old this tendency of the lar 
end to rise becomes more marked, and 
increases from day to day, until at t 
end of the fifth day the long axis i of t 
egg (an imaginary line drawn throng 
tff center lengthwise) will stand at a 
angle of 20° from the per 
This ancle is increased dady, unttJ at ; t 
end of tL eighth day it is at abou 45 

end downward. , f ct & 

This action is b , a f ^ end of the eg 
the air cavity, m the big ena 

increases *»*°* n ^d$U. An a P 
to day, as the egg : «m™ ■ German 

paratus ^"ffe^rthi principl 
poultry f anciei ■) based Qf an eg 

and by means of whicn t * tuTe ma 
maintained at ? rd n 1 . n p ^ y to within a day, « 
be told aPF°. xl ^3e of degrees, draw 
made by pfacjng ^presentm 
rhr P e?;nVcularfbehindtheve SS 



as4 



EGGS 



taining the solution, and observing the 
angle made by the axis of the egg with 
the perpendicular line. This gives the 
age of the egg with great accuracy. 

Weights of Eggs.— The following 
xable shows the variation in weight be- 
tween eggs of the same family of chickens 
and of the comparative value of the 
product of different kinds of fowls: 

Weight of 
Whole Eggs, Shell, 

Grains Grains. Net. 

Common hen, amall . . 635 . 60 84 .86 550 . 54 

Common hen, mean. . 738.35 92.58 645.77 

Common hen, large.. 802.36 93.25 709.11 

Italian hen..' 840.00 92.50 747 50 

Honrlan 9o6.60 93.50 8^3.10 

faFlesche 926 50 94.25 835,25 

. ::::::::. 1,025.50 iw.86 910.64 

From this it will be seen that the 
Houdans and Brahmas are the most 
profitable producers, as far as food value 
of the product is concerned— provided, 
of course, they are equally prolific with 
the ordinary fowl. 

Another calculation is the number of 
eggs to the pound, of the various weights. 
This is as follows: 

Small ordinary eggs 

(635 grains) 12.20 to pound 

Large ordinary eggi 

(802 grains) if. 25 to pound 

Houdan eggs 8.0 to pound 

Brahma, mean .... 7.4 to pound 
Brahma, large 7.1 to pound 

Dried Yolk of Egg. — To prepare this, 
the yolks of eggs, separated from the 
whites, are thoroughly mixed with ^ 
their weight of water. The resulting 
emulsion is strained and evaporated 
under reduced pressure at a tempera- 
ture of 87° to 122° 1\, to a paste. _ The 
latter is fuither dried over quicklime or 
a similar absorbent of moisture, at a 
temperature of 77° to 86° i\, and ground 
to a fine powder. 

Egg Oil.— 

Yolks of eggs (about 

250) . . . . 5.0 parts 

Distilled water 0.3 parts 

Beat this together and heat the mass 
with constant stirring in a dish on the 
water bath until it thickens and a sample 
exhibits oil upon pressing between the 
fingers. Squeeze out between hot plates, 
mix the turbid oil obtained with 0.05 
parts of dehydrated Glauber's salt, shake 
repeatedly, and finally allow to settle. 
The oil, which must be decanted clear 
from the sediment, gives a .yield of at 
least 0.5 parts of egg oil. 



Artificial Egg Oil.— 

Yellow beeswax 0.2 parts 

Cacao oil 0.5 parts 

Melt on the water bath and gradually 
add 9 parts of olive oil. *' 

Egg Powder. — 

Sodium bicarbonate.. 8 ounces 
Tartaric acid. ....... 3 ounces 

Cream tartar. ....... 5 ounces 

Turmeric, powdered. 3 drachms 

Ground rice 16 ounces 

Mix and pass through a fine sieve. 
One teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful 
(according to article to be made), to be 
mixed with each half pound of flour. 

The Preservation of Eggs.— The spoil- 
ing of eggs is due to the entrance of air 
carrying germs through the shells. 
Normally the shell has a surface coating 
of mucilaginous matter, which prevents 
for a time the entrance of these harmful 
organisms into the egg. But if this coat- 
ing is removed or softened by washing or 
otherwise the keeping quality of the egj; 
is much reduced. These facts explain 
why many methods of preservation have 
not been entirely successful, and suggest 
that the methods employed should be 
based upon the idea of protecting and 
rendering more effective the natural coat- 
ing of the shell, so that air bearing the 
germs that, cause decomposition may Iw 
completely excluded. 

Eggs are often packed in lime, salt, or 
other products, or are put in cold storage 
for winter use, but such eggs are very fa* 
from being perfect when they come upon 
the market. German authorities declare 
that water glass more closely conforms 
to the requirements of a good preserva- 
tive than any of the substances com- 
monly employed. A 10 per cent solution 
of water glass is said to preserve eggs so 
effectually that at the end of three and 
one-half months eggs still appeared to be 
perfectly fresh. In most packed eggs the 
yolk settles to one side, and the egg ]S 
then inferior in quality. In eggs pre- 
served in water glass the yolk retainea 
its normal position in the egg, ana. m 
taste they were not to be distinguish 
from fresh, unpacked store eggs. 

Of twenty methods tested in German*, 
the three which proved mo.st efiectn 
were coating the eggs with vaseline, f> 
serving them in limewater, and preservi ^ 
them in water glass. The conclusion was 
reached that the last is preferab le, j 
cause varnishing the eggs with vasen . 
takes considerable time, and ** ea *kf 
them with limewater is likely to give u 
eggs a limy flavor. 




EGGS 



285 



mher methods follow: 

i Pjuj cuii be preserved for -winter 
h r coating them, when perfectly 
use b ^ T -|jj paraffiue. As the spores of 
freSC) . - wi0 c gg S almost as soon as 
fungi g j - t - 3 necessa ry to rub every 
^ *ith chloroform or wrap it a few 
c$$ *L i n a chloroform soaked rag be- 
^ Jinninrr it into the melted paraffine. 
IT 1 v 5 trace of the chloroform enters the 
Sell the development of such germs as 

t have gained access to freshly laid 
&S, J ; s prevented. The paraffine coating 
Eludes a jl future contamination from 
Bladen air, and with no fungi grow- 
jng within, they retam their freshness and 
natural taste. 

jj preserving with Lime. — Dissolve 

in each gallon of water 12 ounces of 
nuicklime, 6 ounces of common salt, 1 
drachm of soda, h drachm saltpeter, \ 
drachm tartar, and 1 \ drachms of borax. 
The fluid is brought into a barrel and 
sufficient quicklime to cover the bottom 
is then poured in. Upon this is placed a 
layer of eggs, quicklime is again thrown 
in and so on until the barrel is filled so 
that the liquor stands about 10 inches 
deep over the last layer of eggs. The 
barrel is then covered with a cloth, upon 
which is scattered some lime. 

III. — Melt 4 ounces of clear beeswax 
in a porcelain dish over a gentle fire, and 
stir in 8 ounces of olive oil. Let the 
solution of -wax in oil cool somewhat, then 
dip the fresh eggs one by one into it so 
as to coat every part of the shell. A 
momentary dip is sufficient, all excess of 
the mixture being wiped off with a cotton 
doth. The oil is absorbed in the shell, 
tne^vax hermetically closing all the pores. 

■IV- — The BeinhaTd method is said to 
cause such chemical changes in the sur- 
face of the eggshell that it is closed up 
Perfectly air-tight and an admittance of 
j" r is entirely excluded, even in case of 
«>ug-continued storing. The eggs are 
or a short time exposed to the direct 

serf ° f sul P hurIc acid > whereby the 
^ „ ce "f. tlle eggshell, which consists 

int C Z ^ me carbonate, is transformed 
into L*— 



of «. me s ™phate. The dense texture 




the e"» W i ue air ' whic ^ admits of storing 
contend \ ? a Very long tImef witll °ut the 
^ntaJo ll ? e eg 6 suffering any disad- 
°do r -t^ 3 chan ges regarding taste and 
s Peci'al t egS ^° es not re qnire an y 
^oilm™ atment to prevent cracking on 
J (?> etc, 



S 

*ulpt ob iect to this on the ground that 
lc aci d is a dangerous poison. 



thai, might, on occasIon> penetrate ^ 

pJc^& b a °^ ««■ and 

would chill the water leW S tl m W- M 

diafplv »„A ^ i A Wltll draw rmme- 
fJiately, and pack. Or p ut up, in Q il 

cylic acid. Eg gs treated in this wav are 
sa.d to taste alter six months, abTolutel? 
as fresh as they were when first put ul 
The eggs should be as fresh as possible, 
and should be thoroughly cleaS before 
dipping The philosophy of the process 
is that the dipping in boiling boric acid 
solution not only kills all bacteria exist- 

u ng ° n -' * r m> the slie11 aTtd membrane, 
but reinforces these latter by a very thin 
layer of coagulated albumen; while the 
packing in salicylatcd oil prevents the 
admission of fresh germs from the at- 
mosphere. Salicylic acid is objected to 
on the same grounds as sulphuric acid. 

VI. — Dissolve sodium silicate in boil- 
ing water, to about the consistency of a 
syrup (or about 1 part of the silicate tc 
3 parts water). The eggs should be as 
fresh as possible, and must be thoroughly 
clean. They should be immersed in the 
solution in such manner that every part 
of each egg is cover ed with the liquid, then 
removed and let dry. If the solution is 
kept at or near the boiling temperature, 
the preservative effect is said to be much 
more certain and to last longer. 



WONDERFUL EGG PRESERVER 
Water Glass (Sodium Silicate).— This 
preparation mixes readily with cold wa- 
ter on a basis of one part Water Glass 
to nine parts of water, and it is a won- 
derful egg preserver. There is no better 
or simpler preserver known. Water Glass 
is odorless and colorless. Eggs may be 
preserved with it for six ^nths °r a year 
and come out as good « *^*f egg 
After mixing the Water Glass wrf* 

pour onto the 
i. nlaced in a bucket, barrel or 

' As tte eggs - * «-? 

i n «late or cover over tne 
"J f o koepten, from floating. Eggs 
KT££Si should » kept in . onol 
place. 



S86 



ELECTROPLATING AND ELECTROTYPING 



for -woolen 
obtained by boiling 4 pounds 



ELAINE SUBSTITUTE. 

A substitute for elaine 
varus is obtain. — , 
Carrageen moss in 25 gallons water for 
8 hours. The soda is then put in and 
the boiling continued for another nalt hour; 
g pounds fleabane seeds are gradually 
added, and a little water to make up tor 
the evaporation. After a further l£ 
hours boiling, the extract is passed 
through a fine sieve and well mixed with 
25 pounds cottonseed oil, 18* pounds 
sweet oil, and 12} pounds ammonia 
solution of 0.96 specific gravity. Next 
day stir in 25 pounds saponified elaine 
and 13 pounds of odorless petroleum ot 
0.885 specific gravity. The resulting 
emulsion keeps well, dissolves perfectly 
in lukewarm water, and answers its pur- 
pose excellently. 

ELECTRODEPOSITION PROCESSES: 
See Plating. 

ELECTROLYSIS IK BOILERS: 

See Boiler Compounds. 

Electroplating and Electro- 
typing 

(See also Plating.) 

PROCESS OF ELECTROPLATING. 

First, clean the articles lo be plated. 
To remove grease, warm the pieces be- 
fore a slow fire of charcoal or coke, or in 
a dull red stove. Delicate or soldered 
articles should be boiled in a solution of 
caustic potash, the latter being dissolved 
in 10 times its weight of water. 

The scouring bath is composed of 100 
parts of water to from 5 to 20 parts of 
sulphuric acid. The articles may be 
put in hot and should be left in the 
bath till the surface turns to an ocher 
red tint. 

The articles, after having been cleansed 
of grease by the potash solution, must be 
washed in water and rinsed before being 
scoured. Copper or glass tongs must 
then be used for moving the articles, as 
they must not afterwards be handled. 
For small pieces, suitable earthenware 
or porcelain strainers may be used. 

The next stage is the spent nitric acid 
bath. This consists of nitric acid weak- 
ened by previous use. The articles are 
left m until the red color disappears, so 
that after rinsing they show a uniform 
metallic tint. The rinsing should be 
thoroughly carried out. 
_ Having been well shaken and drained, 
the articles are next subjected to the 



strong nitric acid bath, which is made im 
as follows: U P 

Nitric acid of 36° Be. . 100 volumes 
Chloride of sodium 

(common salt) \ volume 

Calcined soot (lamp- 
black) 1 volume 

The articles must be immersed in this 
bath for only a few seconds. Avoid o ver 
heating or using too cold a bath. They 
are next rinsed thoroughly with cold water 
and are again subjected to a strong nitric 
acid bath to give them a bright or dull 
appearance as required. 

To produce a bright finish, plunge 
them for a few seconds (moving them 
about rapidly at the same time) in a cold, 
bath of the following composition: 

Nitric acid 100 volumes 

Sulphuric acid 100 volumes 

Chloride of sodium.. . 1 volume 
Again rinse thoroughly in cold water. 
The corresponding bath giving a dull 
or matt appearance is composed of: 

Nitric acid 200 volumes 

Sulphuric acid 100 volumes 

Sea salt.. 1 volume 

Sulphate of zinc. . . 1 to 5 volumes 

The duration of immersion in this bath 
varies from 5 to 20 minutes, according to 
the dullness required. Wash with plenty 
of water. The articles will then have an 
unpleasant appearance, which will disap- 
pear on plunging them for a moment into 
the brightening bath and rinsing quickly. 

The pieces are next treated with the 
nitrate of mercury bath for a few seconds, 

Plain water 10,000 parts 

Nitrate of mercury 10 parts 

Sulphuric acid 20 parts 

It is necessary to stir this bath before 
using it. For large articles the propor- 
tion of mercurv should be greater, AJ 
article badlv cleaned will conic out m 
and lacking its metallic 



various shades auu 1 a^*+.& — . 
brightness. It is better to throw a spent 
bath away than attempt to strengthen , Jj 
The various pieces, after having passea 



through these several processes, 
ready for the plating bath. •,.;„„ 
A few words on tie subject of p W«J 
may not be amiss. Small articles [ are giw 
hot, large ones cold. The cold cyan de 
of gold and potassium bath is compo^ 
as follows: 

Distilled water..... 10,000 parts 

^tassTnl 1 ^ 0 ^ 0 : mparts 

iwom::::::::. wo,** 

The gold, transformed into <-W°- g J 
is dissolved in 2,000 parts oi wax 



ELECTROPLATING AND ELECTROTYPING 



n ;j e in 8,000 parts. The two so- 
th e , C J are then mixed and boiled for 

["Vfan hour. . , , . 

The anode must be entirely submerged 
f e brth, suspended from platinum 
* D . end withdrawn immediately the 
Srfa "nt of action. 

TT n + Gold Bath.— Zinc, tin, lead, 
JimoJiy and the alloys of these metals 
are better if previously covered with 

C °^jie'following are the formulas for the 
other metals per 10,000 parts of distilled 

^Crystallized phosphate of soda, G00 
parts"; alloys rich in copper castings, 500 

^Bisulphide of soda, 100 parts; alloys 
rich in copper, 125 parts.. 

Pure cyanide of potassium, 1U parts; 
alloys rich in copper, 5 parts. Pure gold 
transformed into chloride, 10 parts; alloys 
rich in copper, 10 parts. 

Dissolve the phosphate of soda hot in 
8,001) parts water, let the chloride of gold 
cool in 1,000 parts water; mix little by 
little the second solution with the first; 
dissolve the cyanide and bisulphide in 
1,000 parts water and mix this last solu- 
tion with the other two. The tempera- 
ture of the bath may vary between 122° 
and 175° F. 

Silvering. — Por amateurs a bath, of 10 
jarts silver per 1,000 is sufficient. Dis- 
solve 150 parts nitrate of silver, equiva- 
lent to 100 parts pure silver, in 10,000 
parts of water and add 250 parts pure 
cyanide of potassium. Stir it up until 
completely dissolved, and then filter the 
solution, Silvering is generally effected 
cold, except in the case of small articles, 
fnm, steel, zinc, lead, and tin are better 
w previously copper-plated and then 
^vered hot. The cl eaned articles are 
arst treated in a nitrate of mercury bath, 
vifi C0Ilt inually in motion. 
With excess of current the pieces be- 
come gray, an d blacken. In the cold 
l anodes of platinum or silver should 
^ employed. Old baths are, in this 
r^ e '. Preferable to new. They may, if 
tS, Utt . e J' he artificially aged by the addi- 
*otua % parts iu 1,000 of lic l uid am " 

weak bC n- n -° de blacIcens . the tatn is to ° 
m u i ' lr !t becomes white, there is too 
rauwl GUr rent, and the deposit, being too 
Wiak not adhere - The deposit may 
a Hode K aS norr nal and regular when the 
of ^ ber °mes gray during the passage 
c easea t C Q0 rent an d white again when it 

he nickel vat should be of glass. 



287 

porcelain, or earth Pnwo »„ 



sninhT+^^Y n01 dls t llle d water, nickel 
sulphate and ammonium, free from ox 

The proportion of salt to dissolve is i 
partly weight, to 10 of water A 

for e use° g an<J bath is then read y 
When the bath is ready and the bat- 
tery set up, the wires from the latter are 
joined by binding screws to two metal bais 
resting on the edge of the vat. The bar 
joined to the positive pole of the battery 
supports, through the intervention of a 
nickel-plated copper hook, a plate of 
nickel, constituting the soluble anode, 
winch restores to the bath the metal de- 
posited on the cathode by the electro- 
lytic action. From the other bar are 
suspended the articles to be plated. 
These latter should be well polished be- 
fore being put into the bath. To remove 
all grease, scrub them with brushes soaked 
in a hot solution of whiting, boiled ii 
water and carbonate of soda. 

Copper and its alloys are cleaned well 
in a few seconds by immersion in a bath 
composed of 10 parts, by weight, of water, 
and 1 part of nitric acicL For rough ar- 
ticles, 2 parts water, 1 nitric acid, and 3 
sulphuric acid. For steel and polishec 
castings, 100 parts water to 1 sulphurh 
acid. The articles should remain in th( 
bath until the whole surface is of a uni- 
form gray tint. They are then rubbed 
with powdered pumice stone till the solid 
metal appears. Iron and steel castings 
are left in the bath for three or ton 
hours and then scrubbed with well-sifte< 

Sa if the current be too strong, the nick* 
is deposited gray or even black. Ai 
hour or so is time enough to render tne 
^sufficiently .thick and in » 
to stand polling. When the article 

du ¥o P oii S h *• ^?£BtfsM 

taken in one ^ J ^ « D - rf ^ 
backward and orwa^rd on £ 

soaked in P 0l » sn in » £ rTn i v fi xe d at one 

wa r- thfe»- Th ? 

end and held in ijjc means of 

hollow parts are P oll ? h * V/ d on sticks, 
cloth pads of various sgesfixed^ ^ 

These pads must be ™P£ Thc art i- 
cles, when well onfe te and tne 

1° A3! and finally dried in m~ 
dust. 



ELECTROTYPING— EMBALMING FLUIDS 



288 

SOME NOTES ON ELECTROTYPING, 

s plating, and gilding. 

The first step in the process is the prep- 
aration of the mold. The substance 
JSSnaHy used for the construction of 
SS™ Poster of Paris. This B ub- 
is however, porous and must be 
The materials 



stance ~ 

rendered impermeable. 




hollow molds it is a good plan to arrange 
an internal skeleton of platinum, for 
ultimate connection with the anodes m 
order to secure a good electrical contact 
with all parts of the mold. _ When cov- 
ering several pieces at once, it is as wtll to 
connect each of them with the negative 
pole by an iron or lead wire of suitable 
dimensions. ' . , 

Having prepared the molds in the 
usual way — by obtaining an impression 
in the material when soft, and allowing 
it to set — they should be given a metallic 
coating on their active surfaces of pure 
powdered plumbago applied with a 
polishing brush. 

Fot delicate and intricate objects, the 
wet process is most suitable. It consists 
in painting the object with two or more 
coats of nitrate of silver and ultimately 
reducing it by a solution of phosphorus 
in bisulphide of carbon. 

The plating baths are prepared as 
follows : 

A quantity of water is put in a jar and 
to it is added from 8 to 10 parts in 100 
of sulphuric acid, in small quantities, 
stirring continually in order to dissipate 
the heat generated by the admixture of 
acid and water. Sulphate of copper 
(Milestone) is then dissolved in the 
acidulated water at the normal tempera- 
ture until it will take up no more. The 
solution is always used cold and must be 
maintained in a saturated condition by 
the addition of copper sulphate crystals 
or suitable anodes. 

For use it should be poured into vessels 
of clay, porcelain, glass, hard brown 
earthenware, or incia rubber. For 
large baths wood may be used, lined on 
the interior with an impervious coating 
of acid-proof cement, india rubber, 
marine glue, or even varnished lead 
sheets. 

If the solution be too weak and the 
current on the other hand be too strong, 
the resulting deposit will be of a black 
color. If too concentrated a solution 
and too weak a current be employed, a 
crystalline deposit is obtained. To in- 
sure a perfect result, a happy medium in 
all things is necessary. 



During the process of depesitin 
pieces should be moved about in th 'v. i 
as much as possible in order tr> ttl 
the homogeneity of the liquid P T?^ e 
be not attended to, stratification I I 
circulation of the liquid h P rodu ced if 
the decomposition of the anode 7^ ^ 
rendered visible by the appe ara 15 
long, vertical lines on the cathode* 06 °* 
For amateurs and others perform^ 
small and occasional experiments \h 
following simple apparatus will be ser 
viceable. Place the solution of sulphate 
of copper in an earthenware or porcelain 
jar, m the center of which is a porous pot 
containing amalgamated zinc and a solu 
tion of sulphuric acid and water about 
% or 3 parts in 100. At the top of the 
zinc a brass rod is fixed, supporting a 
circle, of the same metal, the diameter of 
which is between that of the containing 
vessel and the porous pot From this 
metallic circle the pieces are suspended 
in such a manner that the parts to be 
covered are turned toward the porous 
pot. Two small horsehair bags filled 
with copper sulphate crystals are sus- 
pended in the solution to maintain its 
saturation. 

ELM TEA. 

Powdered slippery 

elm bark 2 teaspoonfuls 

(or the equiva- 
lent in whole bar) 

Boiling water 1 cup 

Sugar, enough. 
Lemon juice, enough. 
Pour the water upon the bark. When 
cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice 
and add sugar. This is soothing in case 
of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

EMBALMING FLUIDS. 

Success in the use of any embalming 
fluid depends largely on manipulation, 
an important part of the process being 
the thorough removal of fluid from the 
circulatory system before undertaKuig 
the injection of the embalming liquia. 

L — Solution zinc 
chloride (U, S. 

P.) " 

Solution sodium 

chloride 6 

ounces to pint. 
Solution mercury 

bichlor i d e , 1 

ounce to pint". . 4 pin" 

Alcohol 4P lDtS 

Carbolic acid 

G ,1E:::::::^S^' 



1 gallon 
6 pints 



EMBALMING FLUIDS — EMULSIITERS 



and carbolic acid, 



the glycerine 
Wl?L il the other ingredients, when a 
t heI1 h.tion of 3 gallons results, which 
clef s0 "" amount for a body weigh- 

150 pounds, 
"ft Arsenious acid... 100 parts 
IL Sodium hydrate . 50 parts 

Carbolic acid and water, ot each 
a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the arsenious acid and the 
J In 140 parts of water by the aid of 
soda in r golution 1S co ld, drop 

h hnlic acid into it until it becomes 
carbolic ^ ; flrioMtf add wa ter until 



- j psre nt, and finally add water 
£fi£tod product measures 700 parts. 

JiT.— Salicylic acid 

Boric acid 

Potassium c a r - 
bonate 

Oil of cinnamon . 

Oil of cloves 

Glycerine 

Alcohol 12 ounces 

Hot water . . 12 ounces 

Dissolve the first 3 ingredients in the 
water and glycerine, the oils m the 
alcohol, and mix the solutions. 
IV.— Thymol 15 grains 

Alcohol. 



4 drachms 

5 drachms 

1 drachm 
3 drachms 
3 drachms 
5 ounces 



Glycerine. 10 



£ ounce 
ounces 
ounces 



Water. 

V.— Cooking salt. .... 500 parts 

Alum 750 parts 

Arsenious acid. . . 350 parts 

Zinc chloride. . . . 120 parts 

Mercury chloride 90 parts 
Forma 1 d e h y d e 

solution, 40 per 

cent 6,000 parts 

Water, up to.. . . . 24,000 parts 

VI.— Arsenious acid. .. . 360 grains 
Mercuric chloride. 1J ounces 

Alcohol 9 ounces 

Sol, ac. carbolic, 5 

percent 120 ounces 

From 10 to 12 pints are injected into 
me carotid artery— at first slowly and 
afterwards at intervals of from 15 to 30 
^unites. 

^ERALD (IMITATION): 

0e e Gems, Artificial. 
EMERY: 

Re S met y. Grinder. —Shellac, melted to- 
^l lx emeT y and fixed to a short 
open" FC T' forms the grinder used for 
v Uln g the holes in enameled watch dials 



wit 

O" 



289 

The grinder is reshaped by heati™ 
shellac and molding ?he mLs whSI if 
m a plastic condition. 

Preparing Emery for Lapping: — T 
prepare emery for lapping screw-gage- 
plugs, etc, fill a half-pint bottle w << 
machine oil and flour emery 7 parts 
to 1 part emery, by bulk. Mix thorough! 
and l.et stand for 20 minutes to settl 
Take the bottle and pour off one-half th 
contents without disturbing the settling 
The portion poured off contains only t 
finest emery and will never scratch t" 
work. 

For surface lapping put some flo 
emery in a linen bag and tie up clos 
with _ a string. Dust out the emery 
striking the bag against the surface plat 
use turpentine for rough lapping and * 
dry surface plate for finishing. 

Removing Glaze from Emery Wh.ee 
— If the wheel is not altogether too har 
it can sometimes be remedied by red 
ing the face of the wheel to about $ inc 
or by reducing the speed, or by bo 
Emery wheels should be turned off 
that they will run true before using, 
wheel that glazes immediately after it 
has been turned off, can sometimes be 
corrected by loosening the nut, and al- 
lowing the wheel to assume a slightly 
different position, when it is again tight- 
ened. 

Emery Substitute.— For making arti- 
ficial emery, 1,(534 parts of thefollowmg 
substances may be employed: Seven kin- 
dred and fifty-nine parts of bauxite , 700 
parts of coKe, and 96 parts of a flu , wh ch 
may be a carbonate of lime, of potasti, 
SrVaoda, preferably carbonate of h»e 
on account of its low price 
terials are arranged^ ^ejnjtel^J 



draught. They^rewid^dan. 
ficial emery similar to *^ na TU 
of Smyrna and Naxos, and at Jow c 

EMULSIFIERS: Emulsifier ._The 
Rosm Soap aB an ho :j; n2 gently 
soap should be ^ebybff^ J 
for 2 houp m an ey»PO Q 
mixture of 1,800 g iL flu£douI1C es water, 
caustic soda with m te5 as a 

Upon cooling, the *° a ? ° in p ed fro m the 
ye P low mass, which is drain & 

liquid, ^« e .f? d d ^ e and Wable. Fixed 




EMULSIFIERS— ENAMELING 



to a solution of 10 grains soap in 1 ounce 
water. Volatile oils require 10 grains 
rosin soap, 2| ounces water, and 8 
drachms oil. Creosote requires double 
this amount of soap. Thymol may be 
rendered miscible with water by dis- 
solving IS grains together with 20 grains 
soap in 3 fluidounces alcohol, then add- 
ing enough water to make 6 fluidounces. 
Of course many other substances may be 
emulsified with the same emulsifier. 

Yolk of Egg as an Emulsifier.— The 
domestic ointment of Unona, consistingof 
a mixture of oil and yolk of egg, is mis- 
cible in all proportions with water. It is 
proposed to utilize this fact by substitu- 
ting a diluted ointment for the gum 
emulsions in general use, the following 
being given as a general formula: 

Yolk of egg 10 parts 

Balsam Peru 1 to 2 parts 

Zinc oxide 5 to 10 parts 

Distilled water.. . . 100 parts 

If desired, 33 parts of vinegar may be 
substituted for the same amount of water, 
while oil of cade, oil of birch, lianthral or 
storax may be substituted for the balsam 
Peru, and an equal quantity of talc, mag- 
nesium carbonate, sulphur of bismuth 
subcarbonate, may be introduced in 
place of the oxide of zinc. A further 
variation in the character of the liquid 
may be introduced by the use of medi- 
cated or perfumed waters instead of the 
plain distilled water. Where so diluted, 
as in the above formula, the yolk of egg 
separates out after long standing, but the 
mixture quickly reemulsifies upon shaking. 
Tar and balsams can be emulsified by 
mixing with double their quantity of yolk 
of egg, then diluting by the addition of 
small quantities of water or milk. 

Emulgen.— This emulsifying agent has 
tne following composition : Gl uten , 5 ; gum 
dcacia, 5; gum tragacanth, 20; glycerine 
20; water, 50; alcohol, 10. This mixture 
forms a clear grayish jelly. 

EMULSIONS OF PETROLEUM: 
See Petroleum. 



Enameling 

(See also Ceramics Glazes, Paints, 
Waterproofing, and Varnishes.) 

COMMERCIAL ENAMELING. 

Commercial enameling includes: (1) 
follow ware enameling for domestic use 
W aoll °w ware enameling for chemical 



use; (3) enameling locomotive an^ u. 
tubes; (4) enameling drain aid 
pipes; (5) signboard enameling T 

There is one defect to which all ehftt * . , 
ware is subject, and that is cW*? 1 el 
This may be caused by (1 ) 
mixing of the enamels; 2) imperfect %f 
ing; (3) imperfect pickling of the i^T 
(4) rough usage, feth ofdinary^a 
well-enameled article has been Wr* 
to last m daily use for 10 or 12 V es^ 
whereas defective enameling say o 
sign tablet— which is exempffrom'rouH 
usage— may not have a life exceedi™ 
a few months. All enameled articles 
such as hollow ware and sign tablets' 
first receive a coating of a composition 
chiefly composed of glass called "gray " 
and this is followed by a deposit of 
"white," any additional color required 
being laid above the white. In the mix- 
ing and depositing of these mixtures lie 
the secrets of successful enameling. The 
"gray" has to be fused not only on. but 
also into the metal at a bright red— al- 
most white — heat, and it is obvious that 
its constituents must be arranged and 
proportioned to expand and contract in a 
somewhat uniform manner with the iron 
itself. The "white" has to be fused on 
the surface of the gray, but the gray 
being much harder is not affected by the 
second firing. If it were liquid it would 
become mixed with the white and de- 
stroy its purity. Frequently, owing to 
inferior chemicals, imperfect mixing or 
fusing, a second coating of white is nec- 
essary, in order to produce a surface of 
the necessary puritj- and luster. The 
difficulties of enameling are thus easily 
understood. Unless the metals and 
chemicals are so arranged and manip- 
ulated that their capacities of expansion 
and contraction are approximately the 
same, inferior work will be produced. 
Oxide of iron on the surface of the plates, 
inferior chemicals, incorrect mixings, 
insufficient or overheating in the process 
of fusing, prevent that chemical combi- 
nation which is essential to successful 
enameling. The coatings will be im 
on and not combined, with the result that 
there will be inequalities in expansion 
and contraction which will cause tu 
enamel to chip off immediately " suo- 
mitted to anything approaching rougj 
usage, and in a very short time " s 
mitted to chemical or ordinary atm° s 
pheric conditions. , . . . + k e 

The manufacture of sign tablets is xu 
simplest form to which this important » 
is adapted. Sign-tablet enameling 
however, kept as great a secret an - 
other type. This branch of the industry 




ENAMELING 



. a„A UP as follows: (1) Setting the 
U 6W (0) scaling and pickling the plates; 
plate s ,> t*J he ename I constituents; (4) 
enamel constituents; (5) grind - 
ujelti Dgi « d const ituents; (6) applying 
jng tlie i. (-7) drying the enamel coat- 
Sfre ^fusing the enamel o'l the ar- 
(?) lettering— including alphabet- 



other drawing, spacing, and 
" stencil 
stencil metal; 



^Jc ^^arrangement; " (MM 
cutting 
brand 166 



paper and 
ctt T? ,, s hinff- (12) refusing. Distinctive 
C^ETthS work have distinctive 
braB r fs the arrangement being generally 
e TiWs- Nos. 1 and 2 may or may not 
as ' • led- Nos. 3 and 5 may or may 
mbined; Nos. 4, 7, 8, and 12 



not be ooi 
generally e 
work of girls^J 

andVys 0 * The twelve processes,^ there- 



^erally combined; No. 6 generally the 
S To oris- Nos. 9 and 10 generally com- 
No 11 generally the work of girls 



fate require six classes of trained work- 
people and incompetence or carelessness 
at any section can onlv result m imper- 
fect plates or "wasters." 

A brief description of these processes 
will enable the reader to understand the 
more detailed and technical description to 
follow, and is, therefore, not out of place. 
Ordinary iron sheets will do for the man- 
ufacture of sign tablets; but a specially 
prepared charcoal plate can be had at a 
slightly increased price. The latter type 
is the best, for in many cases the scaling 
and pickling may, to a certain extent, be 
dispensed with. To make this article, 
however, as complete as possible, we 
shall begin from the lowest rung of the 
Manufacturing ladder — i. e., from the 
first steps in the working of suitable iron. 

h— Setting. — The plates may be _ re- 
ceived in sheets, and cut to the required 
S!z e at the enameling factory, or, what is 
aore general, received in sizes according 
j? specification. The former are more 
j e to have buckled slightly or become 
sSu and have t0 be restored to a 

™°?th and uniform surface by ham- 

seem e -° n ^ flat platc " The operation 
. s simple, but an inexperienced oper- 

»ired n,ay f ntiTel y faI1 to produce the de- 
*ith t l esultl and » it he does succeed, it is 
hine A ex P endi ture of a great amount of 
tiv e l vf e JP e rt setter with compara- 
^imn f well -^irected strokes brings 
le ss | ,, ect P late into truth and in readi- 
Uf the next operation. 

tieali^f 1 ^ and Pickling.— The an- 

U ispt,= ii. e s heets in special furnaces 
--.-"s the seal 



e, which can then be 
after which immersion 



Firing to a red heat follows ar,<* +W. 
lasr. traces oi acid are removed hv rTtriS 

may follow, and ^ZlLt%^ a^S 
feet and chemically clean surface. P 

*J L 7 Mixin # ) he Enamel Constitu- 
a^I *~~^^° Uri<r ' n foundation, or gray.-* 
All articles, whether hollow ware or 
plates, are operated upon in a very 
similar manner. Both require the foun- 
dation coating generally called "gray.' 1 
The gray constituents vary considerably 
m different manufactures; but as regards 
the use of lead, it is universally con- 
ceded that while it may in many in- 
stances _ be used with advantage in the 
enameling of sign tablets, etc., it should 
under no circumstances be introduced 
into the coating of articles for culinary 
purposes, or in which acids are to be 
used. The first successful commercial 
composition of this covering was: Cullet 
(broken glass), carbonate of soda, and 
boracic acid. This composition re- 
mained constant for many years, bat 
ultimately gave place to the following: 
Cullet, red lead, borax, niter. The borax 
and red lead form the fluxes, while the 
niter is to "purify" the mass. Some of 
the later mixings consist of the follow- 
ing: Silica powder, crystallized or cal- 
cium borax, white lead, fused together. 
This would be called a frit, and with it 
should be pulverized powdered silica, 
clay, magnesia. This recipe is one re- 
quiring a very high temperature for 
fusing? Silica powder, borax, fused and 
ground with silica, clay, magnesia. Ibis 
Requires a slightly lower tempera „ e 
Frit of silica powder borax, feldspar 
fused togetherf and then .ground with 

consmuenf ^ Wer b ? t ^ 
must always be remember? 
hard-and-fast hue can be 
Chemicals vary in Pj^^.grind- 
V ary in temperature th £oimd g g 
ing, and fixing aj^ o & 
alike, and each o : these e „ 
influence on the character o to 
These compositions may ^JVl d& 
the metal either in l the fonno 
or of a liquid. Some i e J ^ use> but 
powder coating * as "n - d form iS in 

It the pwg^^iS? easier of «- 
favor, as it is coi . . a coat ng 



rul 



292 



ENAMELING 



solution, and the powder then carefully 
dusted through a sieve over the suri ace. 
In this condition the plate is submitted 
to the fusing process. In using the liquid 
material the plate surface is dipped into 
or has the liquid mixing carefully P° ure <i 
over it, any surplus being drained off, and 
any parts which are not to be coated being 
wiped clean by a cloth. The coating is 
then dried in suitable stoves, after which 
H is ready for fusing on to the iron. The 
gray coating should be fairly uniform and 
smooth, free from holes or blisters, and 
thoroughly covering every part of the iron 
which is to be subjected to any outside 
influence. Cooling slowly is important. 
Rapid cooling frequently causes chipping 
of the coating, and in any case it will 
greatly reduce the tenacity of the con- 
nection existing between the glaze and 
the metal. 

Generally the next surface is a white 
one, and it depends upon the class of 
article, the character of the enamels, and 
the efficiency of application, whether 
one coat or two will be required. Rough- 
ly speaking, the coating is composed of a 
glass to which is added oxide of tin, 
oxide of lead, or some other suitable 
opaque white chemical. The mixture 
must be so constituted as to fuse at a 
lower temperature than the foundation 
covering. If its temperature of fusion 
were the same the result would be that 
the gray would melt on the iron and 
become incorporated with the white, 
thus loosening the attachment of the 
mass to the iron and also destroying the 
purity of the white itself. Bone ash is 
sometimes used, as it becomes uniformly 
distributed throughout the melt, and re- 
mains in suspension instead of settling. 
l3one ash and oxide of lead are, however, 
in much less demand than oxide of tin. 
The lead is especially falling into dis- 
favor, for the following reasons: Firstly, 
it requires special and laborious treat- 
ment; secondly, it gives a yellowish- 
white color; thirdly, it cannot resist the 
action of acids. The following is a 
recipe which was in very general use for 
some years: Glass (cullet), powdered 
flint, lead, soda (crystals), niter, arsenic. 
Another consists of the following: Borax, 
glass, silica powder, oxide of tin, niter, 
soda, magnesia, clay. These are fused 
together, and when being ground a 
mixture of Nos. 1, 3, 7, and boracic acid 
is added. 

Enamel mixings containing glass or 
china are now generally in use, although 
for several years the experience of man- 
ufacturers using glass was not satisfac- 
tory Improved compositions and work- 



ing now make this constituent a , 
useful, and, in fact, an almost ° 3 * 
element. The glass shtdA?^ 
broken glass, and as uniform in 7? 6 
acter as possible, as colored class * *?j 
impart a tinge of its own color M 1 
mixing. L0 tJ ae 

The following are two distinct gl a2es 
which do not contain glass or ooreelni 
Feldspar, oxide of tin, niter, sod : 



Th 



is 
re- 



is free from any poisonous body and 
quires no additions: Silica powder oxiH 
of tin, borax, soda, niter, carbonate of 
ammonia, or magnesia. 

Alkalies.— Of the alkalies which are 
necessary to produce complete fusion of 
and combination with the quartz, soda 
is chiefly applied in enamel manufac- 
tures, as the fusing temperature is then 
lower. 

Bone Ash. — This material will not add 
opacity, but only_ semi-transparency to 
the enamel, and is therefore not much 
used. 

Boracic Acid. — Boracic acid is some- 
times substituted for silicic acid, but 
generally about 15 per cent of the former 
to 85 per cent of the latter is added. 
Borax as a flux is, however, much more 
easily used and is therefore largely em- 
ployed in enamel factories. 

Borax. — Calcined borax, that is, borax 
from which a large proportion of the 
natural moisture has been eliminated, is 
best for enamel purposes. It is a fliix 
that melts at medium heat, and enters 
into the formation of the vitreous basis. 
Borax has also the property of thorough- 
ly distributing oxide colors in the enamels. 

Clay.— Only a fairly pure clay can be 
used in enamel mixings, and the varieties 
of clay available are therefore limited. 
The two best are pipe— or white— clay 
and china clay— kaolin. The latter is 
purer than the former, and in -addition to 
acting as a flux, it is used to increase tfle 
viscosity of mixings and therefore tne 
opacity. It is used in much the sam 
way as oxide of tin. 

Cryolite.— Ground cryolite is^a white 

closely 



mineral, easily fusible, and sometimes 



used in enamel mixings. It is 
associated with aluminum- , . 

Cullet.— This is the ge" era ^ ma S fl 
used as a basis. CI ear glass only snou 
be introduced; and as the comppsir i 
of glass vary greatly, small esperim« 
frits should always be made to arm 
the correct quantity to be added. 

Feldspar.— The introduction ot ^ 
spar into an enamel frit i n ? rea ^ ietv ia 
sistency. The common white \& 




n„ used, and its preliminary treat- 
gener aJy p 0 unding is similar to that 

*f rfcdVSh quartz- _ 
a doP lcu j n t l us mineral we have 

FIU flux, 'which fuses at a red heat * 
another are f or the purpose of 



ENAMELING 

tal, and flint ston 



&93 



theTempcrature of fusion of a 

jegulating some being better adapted 

"^Kurpose than others. This, how- 
fo is not the only consideration, for 



ever> i lS rL ter of the flux depends upon 
the mnosition or chemical changes to 
%ch ?he ingVedients are to be subjected. 



are 



borax, clays, Cutlet, 
urn, and fluor- 



jJjfjSd, and soda or potash 
% glass is to form the hard, crystal-like 



Plain, feldspar, gyps 

Spal "' s —Glass is composed of lime, si- 
QnHa orootash. The use of 

ss is 
foundation. 

Gvpsttni.— This mineral is sometimes 
u S ed in conjunction with baryta and 
fluor-spar. 

Lead.— Crystallized carbonate of lead, 
or "lead white," is frequently used m 
enamels when a low temperature for 
fusion is required. It should never be 
used on articles to be submitted to chem- 
ical action, or for culinary use. Minium 
is a specially prepared oxide of lead, and 
suitable for enameling purposes, but is 
expensive. 

Lime.— Lime is in the form o£ carbon- 
ate of calcium when used. 

Magnesium Carbonate is used only in 
sail quantities in enamel mixings. It 
necessitates a higher temperature for 
fusion, but does not affect the color to the 
slightest extent if pure. 

Manganese.— As a decolorant, this 
Mineral is very powerful, and therefore 
small quantities must be used. 

urity of the mineral is essential — i. e., 
t should contain from 96 to 98 per cent 
01 binoxide of manganese. 
E ^ ter -~-At a certain temperature niter 
affA S ? chemical change, which, when 

ents, 



°usbase lStS ^ ^ formatio11 of the vitre- 

1 aiii°iq elaill, ^"^ T ' 0 ^ e11 unc °l° re d porce- 
vf actu 5ome T ^ mes use d in enamel man- 
cliiu a composition: Quartz, 

viscosity y ' ^ e ldspar. It increases 

Sef p if^ T ' — This decolorant is some- 
'iterferp . P urifier * It will, however, 
Hi w l w ?th certain coloring media, 
^ono/k 1 v 1 s is tne case its use should 
ft .. Le b e discontinued. 



C1C Acid -~ Quartz, eand, rock crys- I ?0 



acid in crystallized forrn R^f <& ^ 8 
practically infusible bS' it cln lf ? 18 
parated with other materials t fS 

ingsoda. TheuCripeaSTSl 
pared, so as to free it almost entity 
from iron and admit of the production of 
a pure white enamel when such is re- 
quired. 

Tin Oxide.— All enamels must contain 
white ingredients to produce opacity, 
and the most generally used is oxide of 
tin. By itself it cannot be fused, but 
with proper manipulation it becomes 
diffused throughout the enamel mass. 
On the quantity added depends the 
denseness. or degree of opacity imparted 
to the enamel. 

It will be understood that the enamel 
constituents are divided into four dis- 
tinct groups : I. Fundamental media. 
II. Flux media. III. Decolorant media, 
IV. Coloring media. We have briefly 
considered the three first named, and we 
will now proceed to No. IV. The color- 
ing material used is in every case a 
metallic oxide, so that, so far as this goes, 
the coloring of an enamel frit is easy 
enough. Great care is, however, neces- 
sary, and at times many difficulties 
present themselves, which can only be 
overcome by experience. Coloring ox- 
ides are very frequently adulterated, and 
certain kinds of the adulterants are in- 
jurious to the frit and to the finish of the 
color. 

Comparison of Hollow Ware and Sign- 
Tablet Enameling. -The enameling or 
sign tablets 

hollow ware; the mix W *Y>,S mixineM 
alike, but, as a ^ M ^&Sd forS«i 
applied in • ^^X^dth-t 
the latter. It is easy iu receives 
hollow ware » By handling, 

rougher v^^^^iol expansion, 
it is submitted to ^W^fte to falls, 
and more or less l™}™ ce t £ eie fore, tb« 
knocks, etc., and n«less Q± 

enamel coatingf^^^ C0I1; 
the metal due to tnes ^ becom< 
nection between the z ]&ce> 
loosened and f thouA mud 

The enamel, wererore, s houId be 
alike for both Jjn^S that it will 
prepared for J°» l0 ^ ding the changes , 



distributed over the iron, and the greater 
will be its adherence to the iron, .Any 
article heavily enameled is always liable 
to chip, especially if submitted to the 
slightest bending action, and therefore 
any excess of material added to a plate 
means that it will always be readily 
liable to separate from the plate. In 
hollow-ware enameling the preparation 
of each frit generally receives somewhat 
more attention than for plate enameling. 
The grinding is more effectively carried 
out, m order to remove almost every 
possibility of roughness on any part of 
the surface, especially the inside surface. 

The iron used in tablet and hollow- 
A-are manufacture is rolled sheet iron. 
It is supplied in a variety of qualities. 
Charcoal iron is purer than ordinary 
plate iron, more ductile, and therefore 
capable of being driven out to various 
forms and depths by stamping presses. 
The surface of the charcoal iron is not so 
liable to become oxidized, and therefore 
can be more readily made chemically 
clean for the reception of the enamels. 
Some manufacturers use charcoal plates 
for tablet work, but these are expensive; 
the ordinary plates, carefully pickled 
and cleaned, adapt themselves to the 
work satisfactorily. 

The sheet irons generally used for the 
enameling purposes referred to vary in 
gauge. The finer the iron the greater 
must be the care used in coating it with 
enamel. Thin iron will rapidly become 
hot or cool, the temperatures changing 
much more quickly than that of the mix- 
ing. Unless care, therefore, is used, the 
result of fusing will be that the enamel 
mass will not have become thoroughly 
liquid, and its adherence to the iron will 
be imperfect. 

If, however, the temperature is gradu- 
ally raised to the maximum, and sym- 
pathetic combination takes place, the 
dangers of rapid cooling are avoided. 
Again, the iron, in losing its temperature 
more rapidly than the enamel, will con- 
tract, thus loosening its contact with the 
glaze, and the latter will either then, or 
after a short period of usage, chip off. 
We then arrive at the following hard-and- 
fast rules: (1) In all classes of enameling, 
but particularly where thin iron sheets 
are used, the temperature of the plate 
and its covering must be raised very 
gradually and very uniformly. (2) In all 
cases a plate which has had a glaze fused 
on its surface must be cooled very gradu- 
ally and very uniformly. The importance 
of these rules cannot be over-estimated, 
and will, therefore, be referred to in a 
more practical way later. 



In enameling factories no causes « 
more prolific m the production of Ws = e 
than these, and in many cases the A 
i ects produced are erroneously attrihm 4 
to something else. Cast iron is mrft 
easier to enamel than wroueht i 
This is due to the granular chara e ter°Ji 
its composition.^ It retains the enamel 
in its small microscopic recesses s a 
greater uniformity can be arrived at wit? 
greater ease. Cast-iron enameled biS 
tablets and hollow ware were at on 
time made, but their great weight madp 
it impossible for them ever to come into 
general use. 

Wrought-iron plates, if examined mi 
croscopically, will show that they are of 
a fibrous structure, the fibers running i n 
the direction in which they have been 
rolled. m The enamels, therefore, will be 
more liable to flow longitudinally than 
transversely, and this tendency will be 
more accentuated at some places than at 
others. This, however, is prevented by 
giving the iron sheets what might be 
described as a cast-iron finish. The 
sheets to be enameled should be thorough- 
ly scoured in all directions by quartz or 
flint sand, no part of the surface being 
neglected. This thorough scrubbing 
will roughen the surface sufficiently to 
make it unifornuy retentive of enamel 
mixture, and in no cases should it be 
omitted or carelessly carried out. 

Copper Enameling.— On a clean cop- 
per surface the enameling process is easy. 
The foundation glaze is not essential, 
and when required the most beautiful re- 
sults of blended colors can be obtained 
by very little additional experience to or- 
dinary enameling. 

When the vase or other article has been 
hammered out to the required shape in 
copper, it is passed on to another class of 
artisans, who prepare it for the hands oi 
the enamcler. The design or designs 
are sketched carefully. The working 
appliances consist only of a pointed tool, 
two or three small punches of varying 
sizes, and a hammer. With this small 
equipment the operator sets to wort. 
The spaces between each dividing nne 
are gradually lowered by hammering, 
and when this has been uniformly c°™ 
pleted, each little recess is ready tor * 
ceive its allotment of enamel. 1U0 , 
accurate work even than this can be o ' 
tained by the introduction of flat wir ■ 
This wire is soldered or fixed on the yap 
and forms the outline for the entir 
design. It may be of brass, copP er ' 
gold, but is fixed and buflt round erer 
ltem of the whole design with tne i" 



ENAMELING 



then 



care I* stands above the sur- 
bon ?tL design on the copper articles, 
,ce <» ]j tt i e recesses formed by it are 
it t" e ...„iiv filled up by enamel in 



rra dually filled up 
• * fusings. The whole surface 
, Article" is now ground perfectly 

* f tL fu ond polished until its luster is 

itn " - - - * ■ — — 1 



Bin00 i tn the highest point possible and 
rftl sea ^ gta ^as j,een reached the 

article is 



«•;••:'? $ peadyW the market. 



From the Sheet to the Sign Tablet - 
Tte plates are generally in lengths of G 



2 feet, 6 feet by 3 feet, etc., the 
le y generally being from 14 to 22, ac- 
g 'X, to the size and class of plates to 
These must be cut, but 

P. 1 



cording to 
Vip enameled.. - 

jL e enamelers prefer to order their 
ISSes in specified sizes, which does away 
Uh the necessity of cutting at the enam- 
IL. factory. In order, however, to 
ro3 ke this article complete, we will as- 
sume that a stock of large plates is kept 
on hand, the sizes being 6 feet by 3 feet 
and 6 feet by 2 feet. An order for sign 
tablets is given; particulars, say as fol- 
lows: Length, 2 feet by 12 inches, white 
letters on blue ground; lettering, The 
Engineer, 33 Norfolk Street;, block letters, 
no border line, 2 holes. For ordinary 
purposes these particulars would be suf- j 
ficient for the enamcler. 

Stage I.— Cutting the plate is the first 
operation. The plates 6 feet by 2 feet 
would first be cut down the center in a 
circular cutting machine, thus forming 
two strips, 6 feet by 12 inches. Each 
strip would then be cut into three lengths 
of i feet each. If a guillotine had to be 
used instead of a circular cutter, the plate 
would be first cut transversely at dis- 
tances of 2 feet, thus forming three 
square pieces of 2 feet by 2 feet. These 
^ould then be subdivided longitudinally 
into two lengths each, the pieces being 
then a feet by 12 inches. Each sheet 
*°vild thus be cut into six plates. 
, ktage II.— The cut plates should next 
j Te an y roughness removed from the 
J^ges, then punched with two holes — 
setr at each end, followed by leveling or 
This is done by hammering 
««ully on a true flat surface , 

u £*ge in.--The plates should then be 
leidl ^ dipped into a hydrochloric 
tile a j tQa ° e U P of equal quantities of 
taise?? an<J Wat er- The plates are then 
femr, i . a red fie^t in the stoves, and on 

•Co ■ ? wiU be found that the scale ~; 

Will * jm ^ nas become loosened, and 
talli c , ad ."y fal1 off > leaving a clean me- 
in e .v unac e- A second course of cleari- 
«cid-!i en tollt)Ws in diluted sulphuric 
Part acid to 20 parts w 



295 



out 



stronger bath i s S a 

left in only a very shn^l C fe te i are 
is constructed o "LS I ? "T" The batfi 
with Buiibfe %^ h d W °° d COated insi de 

should be slowly p^tt 

the batH S™ U ; l^ rri ^- 3?ollowinJ 
the bath, the metal is rinsed in water 
after which it is thoroughly scoured with 
fine flinty sand. Ihnsing again follows, 
but in boding water, and then the metal 
is allowed to dry. The enameling proc- 
ess should immediately follow the dry- 
ing,^ for if kept for any length of time the 
surface of the metal again becomes oxi- 
dized. In hollow-ware enameling tht 
hydrochloric acid bath may be omitted. 

Stage IV. — The plates are now readj 
for the reception of the foundation 
gray coating. If powder is used the 
plate is wiped over with a gum solution, 
and then the powder is carefully and uni- 
formly dusted through a fine sieve ove 
the surface. The plate is then reversec 
and the operation repeated on the other 
side. If a liquid "gray" is to be used i 
should have a consistency of cream, anc 
be poured or brushed with equal care 
over the two surfaces in succession, aft 
the plate has been heated to be only jx 
bearable to the touch. The plates a 
then put on rests, or petits, in a dryii 
stove heated to about 160° F., and wh< 
thoroughly dry they are ready for the 
fusing operation. The petits, with , tht 
plate!, are placed on a long fork fixec 
In a wagonf which can be move bac 
ward and forward on rails; the door 
the fusing oven^then raised a 

bricl 

■sed. The s t°ve has a cherr 



wagon moved, forward. The . fork 
ters the oven just above fire day 



door closed. 



red, aim 
utes 
form 



utes the enam^ j-r° D i ateS a re reat 
:m ly melted, and t be pi« fofk 
to be removed on the inse rf« 



the same manner w be ca refulh 

cooling nius i„ n0 e ^ ame l and th« 



Rapid 
avoided, 
iron will be 



° th Se e to separate, ana « 



and chip- 



Wht 



nine will result. a« ingop* 
& shoulc Ibj^S'ffu prepare 
oil the pl» tes ( ,X auunimd and defec 



£96 



ENAMELING 



Stage V. — The coating of the plate 
with white is the next stage. The tem- 

{>erature of fusion of the white glaze is 
ower than that of the gray, so that the 
plate will remain a shorter time in the 
stove, or be submitted to a somewhat 
lower temperature. The latter system 
is to be strongly recommended in order 
to prevent any possibility of fusion of the 
ground mass. The white should be 
made as liquid as possible consistent 
with good results. The advantages of 
thin coatings have already been explained, 
but if the mixing is too thin the ground 
coating will not only be irregularly cov- 
ered, but, in fusion, bubbles will be pro- 
duced, owing to the steam escaping, and 
these are fatal to the sale of any kind of 
enameled ware. When the plate has been 
thoroughly dried and fusion has taken 

f>lace, slow and steady cooling is abso- 
utely essential. Special muffles are 
frequently built for this purpose, and 
their use is the means of preventing a 
large number of wasters. Before put- 
ting on the glaze, care must be taken to 
remove the gray from any part which is 
not to be coated. The temperature of 
fusion should be about 1,890° P.,* and 
the ti me taken is about 5 minutes, 

_Stage VI. — The stencil must be cut 
with perfect exactitude. The letters 
should be as clear as possible, propor- 
tioned, and spaced to obtain the best 
effects as regards boldness and appear- 
ance. Stencils may be cut either from 
paper or from specially prepared soft 
metal, called stencil metal. The former 
are satisfactory enough when only a few 
plates are required from one stencil, but 
when large quantities are required, say, 
60 upward, metal stencils should be used. 
The paper should be thick, tough, and 
strong, and is prepared in the following 
manner: Shellac is dissolved in methy- 
t ated spirits to the ordinary liquid gum 
'orm, and this is spread over both sides 
of the paper with a brush. When thor- 
oughly dry a second protective coating is 
added, and the paper is then ready for 
stencil work. The stencil cutter's outfit 
consists of suitable knives, steel rule, 
scales of various fractions to an inch, a 
large sheet of glass on which the cutting 
is done, and alphabets and numerals of 
various characters and types. For or- 
dinary lettering one stencil is enough, 
but for more intricate designs 2, 3, and 
even 4 stencils may be required. In the 
preparation of the plates referred to in the 
paragraph preceding Stage I, only 1 



pe* ature DB * P " >C ° ° f braBS lvi11 r «=P re aent this tera- 



stencil would be necessary. The n 
before preparation would be measSS 
out to the exact size of the plate and 
letters would be drawn in. The cutt 
would then be done, and the resilS 
shown at Fig. 1 would be obtained, the 



THE KMCINKKK 

33 NORFOLK SS 




Fig. 1 



Fig. 2 



black parts being cut out. The lines or 
corners of each letter or figure should he 
perfeclly clear and clean, for any Haw in 
the stencil will be reproduced on the 
plate. 

Stage VII.— The next stage is the ap- 
plication of the blue enamel. The opera- 
tion is almost identical with that of tha 
white, but when the coating has been 
applied and dried, the lettering must ba 
brushed out before it is Fused. The 
coating is generally applied by a badger 
brush after a little gum water has been 
added; the effect of this is to make the 
blue more compact. 

Stage VIII. — The next operation is 
brushing; the stencil is carefully placed 
over the plate, and held in position, and 
with a small hand brush with hard 
bristles the stencil is brushed over. This 
brushing removes all the blue coating, 
which shows the lettering and leaves the 
rest of the white intact. When this has 
been done, thf. stencil is removed and the 
connecting ribs of the lettering — some of 
which are marked X in Fig. 2 — are then 
removed by hand, the instrument gen- 
erally being a pointed stick of bos or 
other similar wood. 

Stage IX. — Fusing follows as in the 
case of the white glaze, and the plate is 
complete. One coat of blue should be 
sufficient, but if any defects are apparent 
a second layer is necessary. 

The white and blue glazes are applied 
only on the front side of the plate, the 
back side being left coated with gray 
only. 

From the Sheet to the Hollow Ware.— 
In hollow-ware enameling, the iron is 
received in squares, circles, or oblongs, 
of the size required for the ware to be 
turned out. It is soft and ductile, and 
by means of suitable punches and dies it 
is driven in a stamping press to the neces- 
sary shape. For shallow articles only 
one operation is necessary, but for deeper 
articles from 2 to 6 operations may » e 



ENAMELING 



.,4 annealing m a specially con- 
req« jre ?' furnace taking place between 
*V ^Xwing the "drawing' opera- 
e» ch ' ies that of trimming; this may 
ti otlS in % press or spinning lathe, the 
b e do f hriii* to trim the edges and re- 
<> b i ect fl roughness. The articles are 
J» oVC iv for enameling. For explana- 
»°* ffX suppose they are tumblers to 
ion, } e ,l U - n Je, and blue outside. The 
be *^ ' t bid on, then the white and 

1 he blue- that is, after the pickling | 
l^-Sminir operations have been per- | 
line of demarcation be- 
and white must be clear, 



WL- 

enamelmg 
gjgn-plst 



Th 

viscous 

should also be ^applied 
sible. 



i'SS-srsia'Ss&.'-ia 



thinly 



as 



pos* 



'""J' lf-qiiin* r operati-- 
8 " ° j Xhe line of demarcation be 
fo the blue and white must be clear, | 

the appearance of the article 
° 11 not be satisfactory. The process of 
is exactly the same as for 
e enameling, but more care 
™«V be exercised in order to obtain a 
Esther surface. While the hqmd 
Zlme\s are being app hed, circular 
articles should be steadily rotated m 
order to let the coating flow uniformly 
and prevent thick and thin places. the 
enameling of "whole drawn" ironware 
presents no difficulty to the ordinary 
enamel er, but with articles which are 
seamed or riveted, special care and ex- 
perience is necessary. 

Seamed or riveted parts are, of course, 
thicker than the ordinary plate, will ex- 
pand and contract differently, will take 
longer to heat and longer to cool, and the 
conclusion, therefore, that must be ar- 
■ived at is that the thickness should be 
^educed as much as possible, and^ the 
joints be made as smooth as possible. 
Unless special precautions are taken, 
cracks will be seen on articles of this 
kind running in straight lines from the 
rivets or seams. To avoid these, the 
enamel liquid must be reduced to the 
greatest stage of liquidity, the heat must 
b e raised slowlv, and in cooling the 
"tides should pass through, say, % or 3 
Ruffles eacn one having a lower temper- 
p UTe than the preceding one. It is now 
generally conceded that the slower and 
°re uniform the cooling process, the 
§52* *iU he the durability of the 
Wl Feldspar is an almost abso- 

■uccLST l sa ,7 addition *° the g rav *5 

tW hollow- ware enameling, and 

*WiT£! 0SItious of both s rav and white 

Urm ? e s uch as to demand a high 
m I u ire for fusion. The utensils 
r *UoT t ^ ray coati ng should first be 
and H, a ! mo 3t a red heat in a muffle, 
Hite h f in a f urnace raised to a 
sit nilar\ e The white should be treated 
k t C0 ^ y 'i an<i ' m tllis wa y the time taken 
be abcoj fusIon at t^e last stage will 



Stoves and Furnacp*; 

Pusing.-The beTS ts iTobfaSa 
in enameling when the thorough!? ground 
and mixed constituents are* fusld to- 
gether reground, and then applied to 
the metal surface. In cheap enamS ?t£ 
gray is sometimes applied without heine 
previously melted, but it lacks the dura- 
bility which is obtained by thorough 
fusion and regrinding. In smelting en- 
amel one of two kinds of furnaces may 
be used, viz., tank or crucible. The 
former is better adapted to the melting 
of considerable quantities of ordinary 
enamel, while the latter is more suitabU 
for smaller quantities or for finer enamel 
as the mixture is protected from the 
direct action of the flames by covers 
the crucibles. The number of tanks anc 
crucibles in connection with each furnace 
depends upon the heating capacity 
the furnace and upon the out-turn r 
quired. They are so arranged that all 
any of them can be used or put out of u 
readily by means of valves and dampers 
Generally, they are arranged in groups r 
from 6 to 12, placed in a straight or 
circular line, but the object aimed at 
complete combustion of the fuel, and tl 
utilization of the heat to the fullest 
tent. One arrangement is to have tl 
flame pass along the bottom and sides 
the tank and then over the top to t 

chimney. . . , 

The general system in use is, however 
the T crucible system. The crucibles ar 
made from the best fire clay, and tn 
most satisfactory are sold under h nam, 
of "Hessian crucibles. A ne L * , 
Action to the use of the 
Jrf cost. They are expensive an 
many factories the life of the er^ 

very short, in S .^^/Sn When th, 
beyond one period of fusmn ^ ^ e 
however, is the rul e ^ ^ . 



to cart 
or coc 



4 minutes. 



ception, the res 

lessness. Sudden n «, to crack 

Of the crucible v^Ucaug. g ^ ^ ; 
fall to pieces, but lor te? 

excuse. Rur J n + ^crucible and replacii, 
quickly out of the crnfflD ^ 
fl hurriedly wit h a f res ^ ^ pre 
liable-m fact, alrnos ^ d e 

duce fractxire, »°t on g but also the los 
struction of the cr ^ V^bles sho 
of the mixing- > Ne T ent i e heat 
be thoroughly dried m g ^ 
some day- a^d m«J^ tuM ^ ich ^ 
to the requisite tem F 



must sustain for the purposes of fusion. 
Sometimes unglazed porcelain crucibles 
specially prepared with a large propor- 
tion of china clay are used. These are, 
however, expensive and require special 
attention during the first melt. The life 
of all crucibles can be lengthened by: 
(1) Gradually heating them before put- 
ting them into the fire; (2) never replac- 
ing a frit with a cold mass for the suc- 
ceeding one; it should first be heated in a 
stove and then introduced into the cru- 
cible; (3) carefully protecting the hot 
crucibles from cold draughts or rapid 
cooling. 

Melting and Melting Furnaces. — The 
arrangement of the melting furnace must 
be such as to protect the whole of the 
crucible from chills. The usual pit 
furnaces, with* slight modifications, are 
suitable for this purpose. The crucible 
shown at b in Fig. 3 is of the type already 




Fig. 3 



described; at the top it is fitted with a 
hd, a, hinged at the middle, and at the 
bottom it is pierced by a 2-inch conical 
hole.* The hole, while melting is going 
on, is plugged up with a specially pre- 
pared stopper. The crucible stands on 



* Two inches for gray, one incb for glaze ; the 
note should be wider at the top. 



a tubular fireproof support, c, Wn5cll 
allows the molten mass to be easily r 
off into a tub of water, which is nlaeVH^? 
the chamber, d. The fuel i s tErown £ 
from the top, and the supply must K 
kept uniform. From 4 to G of these fur 
naces are connected with the same chirrT 
ney; but before passing to the chimriev 
the hot gases are in some cases used fm. 
heating purposes in connection with the 
drying stove. The plug used may be 
either a permanent iron one coated with 
a very hard enamel or made from a 
composition of quartz powder and water 
An uncovered iron plug would be un- 
suitable owing to the action of the iron 
on the ingredients of the mixing. 

In some cases only a very small hole is 
made in the crucible and no stopper used 
the fusion of the mixing automatically 
closing up the hole. In some other fac- 
tories no hole is made in the crucible, and 
when fusion is complete the crucible is 
removed and the mixing poured out. The 
two latter systems are bad; in the first 
there is always some waste of material 
through leakage, and in the latter the 
operation of removing the crucible is 
clumsy and difficult, while the exposure 
to the colder atmosphere frequently causes 
rupture. 

The plug used should be connected with 
a rod, as shown in Fig. 3, which passes 
through a slot in one-half of the hinged 
lid, a. When fusion is complete this half 
is turned over, and the plug pulled up, 
thus allowing the molten mass to fall 
through into the vat of water placed un- 
derneath. The mixing in the crucibles, 
as it becomes molten, settles down, and 
more material can then be added until 
the crucible is nearly full. If the mixing 
is correctly composed, and has been thor- 
oughly fused, it should flow freely from 
the crucible when the plug is withdrawn. 
Fusing generally requires only to be done 
once, but for fine enamels the operation 
may be repeated. The running off into 
the water is necessary in order to make 
the mass brittle and easy to grind. -U 
this was not done it would again form 
into hard flinty lumps and require much 
time and labor to reduce to a P 0 """", 1 ". 

A careful record should be kept of the 
loss in weight of the dried material « 
each operation. The weighings shouw 
be made at the fcllowing points: Ui 
Before and after melting; (2) alter 
crushing. 

The time required for melting vanes 
greatly, but from 6 to 9 hours ma > r ^ 
considered as the extreme limits. « 
is much used for raising the necessary 
heat for melting. The generator may o< 




ENAMELING 



. „ n7 convenient position, but 

placed * ys tem is to Jbaye at in the 

3 

feeble trouble in their preparation, 



a vetf ^battery of muffles, any or all 



quired 



; «ch new batch of material re- 
fresh stopper, wrought-] ron 
re been introduced inmany 
coated with an 



s'toPP er * U These 



f actor 'f to airing a much higher tempera- 
ena f f .sion than the fundamental sub- 
ture ,nd this coating prevents the iron 
P any injurious action on the int. 
ta rine -For fusing the enamel muffle 
are used;, these furnaces are 
f - Tin construction, being designed 
ffllB ^ iivfnr- CD Minimum consumption 
IK -m maximum heat in the muffle; 
afcJion of the inside of the muffle 
lom dust, draughts, etc. 

The muffle furnaces may be of any 
« K e but in order to economize fuel, it is 
obvious that they should be no larger 
than is necessary for the class and 
quantity of work being turned out. hot 
sign-plate enameling the interior or the 
muffle mav be as much as 10 feet by 5 
feet wide by 3 feet in height, but a furnace 
of this kind would be absolutely ruinous 
for a concern -where only about a dozen 
small hollow-ware articles were enameled 
at a time. The best system is lo^ have 
8 or 3 muffle furnaces of different dimen- 
sions, as in this way all or any one of 
them can be brought into use as the 
character and number of the articles 
may require. The temperature through- 
out the muffle is not uniform, the end 
nest to the furnace being hotter than 
that next to the door. In plate enamel- 
mg it is therefore necessary that the 
Plates should be turned so that uniform 
tk Sl011 °* t ' ie enam el may take place. In 
™e working of hollow ware the articles 
should he first placed at the front of the 



£99 



process „ f bJoS^S^SSt % 
of.en.ngs to the muffle shonlcfbe t«U 
little as posnble; otherwise cold "ah is 




SECTION ON A. 3, 



FRONT VIEW 



Fig. 4 



Fig. 4 shows a simple arrangement of 
a muffle furnace; a is the furnace itself, 
with an opening, e, through which the 
fuel is fed; b is the muffle; c shows the 
firebars, and d the cinder box; / is a rest 
or plate on which is placed the articles to 
be enameled. The plate or petits on 
which the articles rest while being put 
into the muffle should be almost red hot, 
as the whole heat of the muffle m this 
way begins to act immediately on the 
enamel coating. The articles inside the 
muffles can be moved about when neces- 
sar-v either by a hook or a pair of tongs, 
bufcare ZnJt be taken that every^rt 
of the vessel or plate is submitted to the 

of ar Arrangement of ^^"^ 
connected with an enameling factory 



t S TOVES— 1 



— ttJFIRE HOLE AND f 



FUSING 
OVEN 



FIRE Grates - 




Hasting furnace 



door 



ENAMELING SHOP 



DOOR 

FIRE BRI0K8 



j 



300 



ENAMELING 



present working. The stoves shown in 
Fie. 5 are drying stoves fired from the 
end by charcoal, and having a tempera- 
ture of about 160° F. Fig. 6 shows the 
arrangement of the flues for the passage 
of the gases round the fusing oven. The 
section through the line A B, Fig. 5, as 
shown in Fig. 7, and the section through 




SECTION THROUGH FUSING OVEN 
Fig. 6 




SECTION ON 
Fig. 7 



FIRE BBICK 




SECTION THROUGH FRIT KILNS 
Fig. 8 

the frit kilns, as shown in Fig. 8, are 
sufficiently explanatory. The frit kilns 
and the fusing oven flues both lead to the 
brick chimney, but the stoves are con- 
nected to a wrought-iron chimney shown 
in Fig. 6. Another arrangement would 
have been to so arrange the stoves that 
the gases from the frit kilns could have 
been utilized for heating purposes. 

Fuel. — The consumption of fuel in an 
enameling factory is the most serious 




item of the expenditure. Ill- constructed 
or badly proportioned stoves may *I 
resent any loss of coal from a quarter 
one ton per day, and as great and unif o 
temperatures must be maintained f "l 
of low quality and price is not desirable 
In the melting stoves either arranged ?; 
tank or crucible furnaces, the character 
of the coal must not be neglected I 
light dusViron oxide, or injurious gages 
will enter into the crucibles through anv 
opening, especially if the draught is not 
very great. Almost any of the various 
kinds of fuel may be used, provided that 
the system of combustion is specially 
arranged for in the construction of the 
fu rnaces. Charcoal is one of the best 
fuels available, its calorific value being 
so great; but its cost is in some places 
almost prohibitive. Wood burns too 
quickly, and is therefore expensive, and 
necessitates incessant firing. 

For practical purposes we are thus 
often left to a selection of some type of 
coal. A coal with comparatively little 
heating power at a cheap price will be 
found more expensive in the end than 
one costing more, but capable of more 
rapid combustion and possessing more 
heat yielding gases. Cheap and hard 
coals give the fireman an amount of labor 
which is excessive. The proper main- 
tenance of the temperature of the stove 
is almost impossible. Anthracite is ex- 
cellent in every way, as it consists of 
nearly pure carbon, giving oft' a high de- 
gree of heat without smoke. Its use, of 
course, necessitates the use of a blower, 
but to this there can be no objection. 
Any coal which will burn freely and clean, 

giving off no excessive smoke, and capa- 
le of almost complete combustion, will 
give satisfaction in enameling; but it 
must not be forgotten that the consump- 
tion of fuel is so large that both price and 
quality must be carefully considered. 
Experimental tests must be made from 
time to time. A cheap, common coal 
will never give good results, and a good 
expensive coal will make the cost of 
manufacture so great that the prices o. 



the 



enameJe 



led 



_ articles will render them 
unsalable. Any ordinary small factory 
Avill use from 2 to 4 tons per day of coal, 
and it will thus be seen that the financial 
success of a concern lies to a very erea 



extent at the mouth of the furnace. 



Coke 



is a good medium for obtaining the 
necessary heat required in en ? nl Sj&fU 
it can be got at a reasonable price, y 1 
a good draught a uniform temperature 
can be easily kept up, and the »se o 
this by-product is, therefore, to be n 
ommended. 



ENAMELING 



301 



ood coal and a furnace con- 
W> th , 8 utilize the heat given off to 
& a $nJt extent, there may still be un- 
tbe i lllie ; was te. The arrangement of 
necessa^, , d only b e ma de by those 
^ f ilv understand the character of 
ffh ° I and the objects in view. The 
the c0 j c harge should be thoroughly 
teniae i reliable, as much waste 

eS ? erlC unitly traced to imperfect feeding 

of f h rharffe of articles should be as 
, XS poSble, as fusing will take place 
lag ii„fls well on many articles as on 
eqU Vie charges should follow one 
Fit, J as rapidly as can be conveniently 
Bn d out" and where this is not done 
Tie is a Jack of organization which 
should be immediately remedied. 

jjjjls —Any hard substances must first 
be broken up and pounded in a pounding 
or stamping mill, or m any other suitable 
manner, thus reducing the umps to a 
granular condition. When this has been 
done the coarse is separated from the 
fine parts and the former again operated 
on. The next process is roller grinding 
for reducing the hard fritted granular 
particles to a fine powder. These mills 
vary in construction, but a satisfactory 
type is shown in Fig. 9. Motion is con- 




GRINDING MILL 
Fig. 9 

Jped by a belt to the driving pulley, and 
W 18 J ransm itted from the pinion to the 
shaft t u e1, wilic b is connected by a 
the • S 1 " 0111 ^ plate. As this revolves 

jnatcrird causes the mill wheels to 



-Dig. 1U. lhese mills consist of q 



tedii i atld in this wa i th e material is 
mIT i l j- a P^der. The rollers are of 
UCe a diameter on the inner side to 



p tev - ""*»Lie ie r on tne inner siuc uu 
ar e ,5 , Bu ppag e , and when all the parts 
clo S pT . of ""on, the metal must be 
so aa f aitle d and of very hard structure, 
t° reduce the amount removed by 
rWi 8 aT ° a mini mum. When the mate- 
^ car f B ,i OUnd wet » tbc powder should 
""ully protected from dust and 




GLAZING MILL 
Fig. 10 

strong Iron frame securely bolted to a 
stone foundation. In the sketch shown 
the framing carries 2 mills, but 3 or 4 
can be arranged for. A common ar- 
rangement for small factories consists of 
2 large mills, and 1 smaller mill, driven 
from the same shaft. One of the mills is 
used for foundation or gray mixings, the 
second for white, and the smallest one for 
colored mixings. In these mills it is 
essential that the construction is such as 
to prevent any iron fitting coming into 
contact with the mixing, for, as has 
already been explained the iron wilt 
cause discoloration. The ground rfjte 
is composed of quartz and is 
It is surrounded by a wooden ^ing-as 
shown at a— and bound togeLher by iron 
hoops The millstones are heavy 

^ rr f°- ne Cr The powdered material 

%hen a condition re ^ \ is run of ? 
has been reached the mixture ■ ^ 
through the ^; wt ^equired b 3 
thrown out of g^ r ,^ without inter- 
means of a clutch box, * q 
fering with the working ? 
The grinding stones we v Xq tlTQ£ 
require to be refaced £°m therefo « 
To 1 avoid « W/^ly^have a spare se 
it is advisable to -aw J removed for 
in readiness to tephace t qJ 

refacing- The d f or , in many 

should not be negiec^ ^ have been 
eases, ^Jf * ^ away of stones 

traced jo the J? gallic matter, 
containing eartny « 



Enamel Mixing. — All constituents of 
which an enamel glaze is composed must 
be intimately mixed together. This can 
only be done by reducing each to a fine 
powder and thoroughly stirring them up 
together. This part of the work is often 
carried out in a very superficial manner, 
one material showing much larger lumps 
than another. Under circumstances such 
as these it is absurd to imagine that in 
fusion equal distribution will take place. 
What really happens is that some parts 
of the mass are insufficiently supplied 
with certain properties while others have 
too much. A mixture of this class can 
produce only unsatisfactory results in 
every respect, for the variations referred 
to will produce variations in the com- 
pleteness of fusion in the viscous charac- 
ter of the mass, and in the color. 

The mixing can be done by thoroughly 
stirring the various ingredients together, 
and a much better and cheaper system is 
mixing in rotating barrels or churns. 
These are mounted on axles which rest 
in bearings, one axle being long enough 
to carry a pulley. From the driving shaft 
a belt is led to the cask, which then rotates 
at a speed of from 40 to 60 revolutions 
per minute, and in about a quarter of an 
hour the operation is complete. The 
cask should not exceed the 5-gallon size, 
and should at no time be more than two- 
thirds full. Two casks of this kind give 
better results than one twice the size. 
The materials are shot into the cask in 
their correct proportions through a large 
bung hole, which is then closed over by a 
close-fitting lid. 

Mixings. — For gray or fundamental 
coatings: 

I. — Almost any kind of 

glass 49 per cent 

Oxide of lead 47 per cent 

Fused borax 4 per cent 

II. — Glass (any kind). . 61 percent 

Red lead 22 per cent 

Borax 16 per cent 

Niter 1 per cent 

HI- — Quartz 67.5 per cent 

Borax 29.5 per cent 

Soda (enameling), 3 per cent 

The above is specially adapted for iron 
pipes. 

IV. — Frit of silica pow- 
der. 60 per cent 

Borax 33 per cent 

White lead 7 percent 

Fused and then ground with — 
Three-tenths weight of silica frit. 
Clay, three-tenths weight of silica frit. 
Magnesia, one-sixth weight of white lead. 



V. — Silica fit 

Borax ?4 I Cent 

Oxide of lead.,,!' 4 Cent 

Clay £« r c ^ 

Magnesia " £ £° p r cer * 

° * per cent 

No. V gives a fair average of severa] 
mixings which are m use, but it can K 
varied slightly to suit different condhin™ 
of work. ua 

Defects in the Gray or Ground Coat 
i^g— Chipping is the most disastrous 
This may be prevented by the addition 
of some bitter salt, say from 3 to 4 De i 
cent of the weight of the frit. 

The addition of magnesia when it has 
been omitted from the frit may also act 
as a preventive, but it should only be 
added in very small quantities, not ex- 
ceeding 2.5 per cent, otherwise the 
temperature required for fusion will be 
very great. 

Coating and Fusion.— Difficulties of 
either may generally be done away with 
by reducing the magnesia used in the 
frit to a minimum. 

A soft surface is always the outcome 
of a mixing which can be fused at a low 
temperature. It is due to too much lead 
or an insufficiency of clay or silica 
powder. 

A hard surface is due to the quantity 
of lead in the mixing being too small. 
Increase the quantity and introduce 
potash, say about 2.5 per cent. 

The gray or fundamental mixing 
should be kept together in a condition 
only just sufficicnt.lv liquid to allow of 
being poured out. When required to be 
applied to the plate, the water necessary 
to lower it to the consistency of thick 
cream can then be added gradually, 
energetic stirring of the mass taking 
place simultaneously in order to obtain 
uniform distribution. 

The time required for fusion may 
vary from 15 minutes to 25 minutes, but 
should never exceed the latter. If » 
does, it shows that the mixing is too 
viscous, and the remedy would be me 
addition and thorough intermixture ot 
calcined borax or boracic acid. ft J ll ? u . 
this fail, then remelting or a new frit is 
necessary, . 

A highly glazed surface on leaving tne 
muffle shows that the composition is to 
fluid and requires the addition ot eioy, 
glass, silica powder or other substance 
to increase the viscosity. , , .i e 

As has been already explained, i 
glaze is much more important than 
fundamental coating. Discoloration w 
slight flaws which c-ould be tolerated i» 
the latter would be fatal to the former. 



ENAMELING 



SOS 



us 



i zeS oxide of lead need not be 
g Tf should never be used in a coat- 
sse ls which are to contain acids 
* fo ' led as cooking utensils. It may 
■ b e j f„ siffD-tablet production. # 
Jt Dioes the following glaze gives 
J> or P r 
d results. 

^Feldspar « 

Borax 

Quartz. . }6>o 

Oxide of tin ... . l£ 
Soda. 



per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



Fluorspar 3.75 per cent 

Saltpeter 2.25 per cent 

Th* sign tablets the following gives 
*„{, results, although some of the suc- 
ceeding ones are in more general use: 

rr— Gullet 20 percent 

Powdered flint.. 15 percent 

Lead 52 per cent 

Soda 4.5 percent 

Arsenic 4.5 percent 

Niter 4 per cent 

HI— Frit of silica 

powder 30 percent 

Oxide of tin. . . . 18 per cent 

Borax IT percent 

Soda 8.6 percent 

Niter 7.5 per cent 

White lead 6.5 percent 

Carbonate o f 

ammonia.... 5.5 percent 

Magnesia 4 per cent 

Silica powder. . . 4 per cent 
The following are useful for culinary 
Utensils, as they do. not contain lead: 

IV.— Frit of silica 

powder 26 percent 

Oxide of tin . . . . 21 per cent 

Borax 20 percent 

Soda 10.25 percent 

Niter 7 per cent 

Carbonate o f 

ammonia .... 5 per cent 

Magnesia 3.26 per cent 

f 0 ^?_ should be ground up with the 



lowing 

Silica powder 
Oxide of tin. 

Soda, 

Magnesia 0.5 

^ — Feldspar 41 

J*orax 35 

Oxide of tin. ... 17 

Niter , . 7 

^5°^ 30 

feldspar 22 

Jihcate powder . 17.5 

^xideoftin 15 

??. d * 13.5 

Niter ^ 



4.25 peT cent 
2.25 per cent 
0.5 percent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



28 
19.5 

18 
17.5 
9.5 



per cent 
per cent 

per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 
per cent 



, Borax will assist fusion £W,* 

m „ Ie «£• 

VII.— Borax 

Oxide of tin '. . , [ 
Gullet (powdered 
> white glass) . . 
Silica powder. . . 

Niter 

Magnesia g 

Cla y 2.5 

VIII.— Borax. ........ 26.75 per cent 

Cullet 19 percent 

Sihca powder. . . 18.5 percent 
Oxide of tin . . . . 19 per cent 

Njte r 9.25 per cent 

Magnesia 4.5 percent 

Soda 3 percent 

To No. VII must be added— while 

being ground — the following percentages 

of the weight of the frit: 

Silica powder. . . 18 per cent 

Borax 9 per cent 

Magnesia 5.25 percent 

Boracic acid. . . . 1.5 percent 
To No, VIII should be similarly added 
the following percentages of the frit: 

Silica powder. . . 1.75 per cent 

Magnesia 1.75 percent 

Soda 1 per cent 

Thig mixing is one which is used in 
the production of some of the best types 
of hollow ware for culinary purposes 
The glaze should be kept in tubs mixed 
with water until used, and it should b 
carefully protected from dust. 

Defects in the Glaze or ^^^k 
be due to its being insuth 
More oxide of t"i is 

Insufficient luster can be 
\,o niianti^. 

it proves < 



white may 

ciently Sf^^ wTev^ed by 
•bon£ 

sier can - j 
'adding to the quantity 
ducing tne borax B the g Jj^ 
through the white* P hih or tb 
temperature of fusmn ^ ^ „ 

the ^'"8 , spread i 

the co*to* 

- to tflaze separate 



add magnesia, 
from the gray 
will 



some bitter 
" d by reduc 
Immunit 



Wsity of the . 
the coating 

may be due iv gla 

add 
u„ increase 

Viscosity wlll .. t 7 of borax. 

ing the Quantity oi d . pr0C ured b 

ng P native carbo^te g ^ th 
Slater the ^f^he temperature 

iorat* Say wiU increase th 




ENAMELING 



of fusion. Oxide of lead will make a frit 
more easily fusible. A purer white can 
be obtained by adding a small quantity 
of smalt. 

Water. — The character of the water 
used in the mixing of enamels is top fre- 
quently taken for granted, for unsuitable 
water may render a mixing almost entire- 
ly useless. Clean water, and with little 
or no sulphur present, is essential. For 
very fine enamels it is advisable to use 
carefully filtered water which has shown, 
after analysis, that it is free from any 
matter which is injurious to any of the 
enamel constituents. 

How to Tell the Character of Enamel. 
— In the case of sign tablets the charac- 
teristics looked to are appearance and 
the adherence of the coatings to the iron. 
For the latter the tests are simple. The 
plate if slightly bent should not crack the 
coating. An enamel plate placed in 
boiling water for some time and then 
plunged into very cold water should not 
show any cracks, however small, even 
after repeated treatment of this kind. 

Culinary utensils, and those to hold 
chemicals, should not only look well, but 
should be capable of resisting the action 
of acids. Lead should never enter into 
the composition of enamels of this class, 
as they then become easily acted upon, 
and in the case of chipping present a 
menace to health. The presence of lead 
is easily detected. Destroy the outside 
coating of the enamel at some spot by the 
application of strong nitric acid. Wash 
the part and apply a drop of ammonium 
sulphide. If lead is present, the part 
will become almost black, but remains 
unchanged in color if it is absent. 

Another simple test is to switch up an 
egg in a vessel and allow it to stand for 
about 24 hours. When poured out and 
rinsed with water a dark stain will re- 
main if lead is present in the enamel. 
To test the power of chemical resistance 
is equally simple. Boil diluted vinegar 
in the vessel for several minutes, and if 
a sediment is formed and the luster and 
smoothness of the glaze destroyed or 
partially destroyed, it follows that it is 
incapable of resisting the attacks of acids 
for any length of time. There are sev- 
eral other tests adopted, but those given 
present little difficulty in carrying out, 
and give reliable results. 

Wasters and Seconds: Repairing Old 
Articles.- — In all enameling there must 
be certain articles turned out which arc 
defective, but the percentage should never 
be very great. The causes which moat 



frequently tend to the production 
wasters are new mixings and a tenX ° 
ture ot iusion which is either too hieh 
too , low There are two ways of dk 
posing of detective articles, viz • m 
Chipping off the bad spots, p ^ ch gf 
them up and selling them as "seconds'- 8 
(8) throwing the articles into the waste 
heap. The best firms adopt the l a +tJ! 
course, because the recoating and firin 
of defective parts practically means f 
repetition of the whole process, thus add 
ing greatly to the cost, while the selling 
price is reduced. Overheating m fusion 
is generally shown by blisters or by the 
enamel being too thin in various places 
Chipping may be also due to this cause 
the excessive heat having practically 
fused the fundamental coating. 

At this stage the defects may be 
remedied by breaking off the faulty parts, 
patching them up, and then recoating 
the whole. With sign tablets there is no 
objection to doing so, but with hollow 
ware the fact remains that the article is 
faulty, no^ matter how carefully defects 
may be hidden. As white is the most 
general coating used, and shows up the 
defects more than the colored coatings, 
the greatest care is necessary at every 
stage of the manufacture. While glow- 
ing on the article, it should appear 
uniformly yellow, but on cooling it should 
revert to a pure white shade. On ex- 
amining different makes of white coated 
articles, it will be found that some are 
more opaque than others. The former 
are less durable than the latter, because 
they contain a large percentage of oxide 
of tin, which reduces the elasticity. To 
ensure hardness the mixing must be 
very liquid, and this cannot be arrived 
at when a large quantity of oxide of tin 
is introduced. 

Old utensils which have become 
broken or chipped can be repaired, 
although, except in the case of large 
articles, this is rarely done. The opera- 
tions necessary are: (1) The defective 
parts chipped off; (2) submitted to a red 
heat for a few moments; (3) coated witn 
gray on the exposed iron; (4) fused; y) 
coated with the glaze ou the gray; V>i 
fused. 

To Repair Enameled Signs.— 

Copal 5 parts 

Damar 5 P ar J s 

Venice turpentine ... 4 parts 
Powder the rosins, mix with the - tatj> 
pentine and add enough alcohol to Jo 
a thick liquid. To this add WW* 
powdered zinc white in sufficient qua 
tity to yield a plastic mass. L-oior g 



ENAMELING 



805 



jitter 

ed 



of 



course, be added if 



« *fter application is polished 
KtS beSin? Efficiently hard. 
whe111 1 for Copper Cooking Vessels. — 

Wt't e .Tnd Wrongly 



guflCieii" , ground to a 
$F fl a U „°d ?tron g ly%alcined with 
P^f r f,7me of unburnt gypsum, at a 
^ual heat> stirri ng diligently. 

^X Kture to a paste with water, 
the vessel with it, using a brush, 
paint tne _ like a g]aze an d dry 

*P° ur i n Increase the .heat gradually 

^■ESs the vesseIs with i th i- e g f s 

^jlt.Dce^uickly into strong heat under 
S table covering or a mantle of burnt 



clay, 

opaque ena 
tie copper 



The substance soon forms a white 
mel, which ahderes firmly to 
It can stand pretty hard 



without cracking, is adapted for 
■poking purposes and ' 



g&w^nd^ to the 
copper, a sudden and severe heat must 
be observed. 

To Pickle Black Iron-Plate Scrap 
Before Enameling. —The black iron- 
plate scraps are first dipped clean in a 
mixture of about 1 part of sulphuric 
acid and 20 to 22 parts of water heated 
to S0° to 40° C. (86° to 104° F.), and 
sharp quark sand is then used for scour- 
ing. They are then plunged for a few 
seconds in boiling water, taken out, and 
allowed to dry. Rinsing with cold water 
and allowing to dry thus may cause 
mt. The grains of quartz cut grooves 
in the fibers of the iron; this helps the 
grounding to adhere well. With many 
™ds of plate it is advisable to anneal 
"fer pickling, shutting off the air; by 
tais means the plates will be thoroughly 
cl =an and free From oxidation. Much 
practice is required. — The Engineer. 

Cameled iroit recipes. 

[ ^ e ^ rst thing is to produce a flux to 
S at a mod erate heat, which, by fiow- 
W U f 0U f be plate ' forms a uniform sur- 
»m.i e w bite or colored enamels to 
ot k upon. 

p lux f or E nameled Iron __ 

m*t d 10 p«? 

pi- . ua y 1 part 

W.glass 10 parts 

T h , In S Ipart 

any of t^ tes may tb - en be coated with 
tony c ; tl ; hc following mixtures, which 
*ith a i-fl be spread on as a powder 

u *. or tt ' gum > as in the case of the 
**d the i rs ma y be mixed with oil 
plates dipped therein when 



not attacked by 
If the glassy substance is 



pxide & ofii n .;;; ? a S aT l s 

Niter... 1 4 parts 

Red lead... '.".V." \ \\\ J* E**! 

Flint or china clay! ". . l 
Black.— 

Red oxide of iron. ... u Parts 

Carbonate of cobalt.. l| p arts 

Ked lead g 

Borax g 

Lynn sand. g 

Yellow Coral.— 

Chromate of lead. ... 1 

Red lead 

Mint 

Borax 

Canary. — 

Oxide of uranium . 

Red lead 4^ parts 

Flint li parts 

Flint glass 1 part 

Turquoise. — 

Red lead 40 parts 

Flint glass 12 parts 

Borax 16 parts 

Flint 12 parts 

Enamel white 14 parts 

Oxide of copper 7 parts 

Oxide of cobalt ipart 

Red Brown. — 

Calcined sulphate of 



parts 
part 



parts 
parts 
parts 



1 part 
2| parts 
1 part 
i part 



1 part 



iron ■ 

Flux No. 8 (seepage 307) 3 



part 
parts 



parts 
parts 
part 



Mazarine Blue. — 

Oxide of cobalt 10 

Paris white * 

Sulphate barytes A 

Fire the above at an intense heat am 
for use take _ 1 part 

Above stain - • • ■ g rts 

Flux No. 8 (seepage 307) d P 



Flux 

Sky Blue.— gQ 

Flint glass 1Q 

White lead * g 

Pearlash . • - • g 

Common salt. 4 

Oxide of cobalt 4 

Enamel, yrhxte 

Chrome Green.— 10 parts 

Borax. . : ■ ' . . . 4* P ar ! 3 



parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 
parts 



parts 
parts 



Oxide of chrome £ 

White lead 9 

Flint glass.- 3 parts 

Oxide of cobalt. . 1 part 
Oxide of tin 



306 



ENAMELING 



Cora' Red. — 

Bichromate potash 1 part 

Red lead 4£ parts 

Sugar of lead 1 J parts 

Flint 1% parts 

Flint glass 1 part 

namel White. — Soft : 

Red lead.. 80 parts 

Opal glass 50 parts 

Flint 50 parts 

Borax 24 parts 

Arsenic S parts 

Niter 6 parts 

namel White. — 

Red lead 10 parts 

Flint 6 parts 

Boracic acid 4 parts 

Niter 1 part 

Soda crystals 1 part 

Where the enameled work is intended 
to be exposed to the weather do not use 
flux No. 8, but substitute the following: 

White lead 1 part 

Ground flint glass 1 part 

All the enamels should, after being 
mixed, be melted in crucibles, poured 
out when in liquid, and powdered or 
ground for use. 

FUSIBLE ENAMEL COLORS. 

The following colors are fusible by 
heat, and are all suitable for the decora- 
tion of china and glass. In the follow- 
ing collection of recipes certain terms 
are employed which may not be quite 
understood by persons who are not con- 
nected with either the glass or porcelain 
industries, such as "glost fire" and "run 
down," and in such cases reference 
must be made to the following defini- 
tions: 

"Run down. 3 ' Sufficient heat to melt 
into liquid. 

"Glost fire." Ordinary glaze heat. 
"Grind only." No calcination re- 
quired. 

"Hard fire." Highest heat attain- 
able. 

"Frit." The ingredients partly com- 
posing a glaze, which require calcina- 
tion. 

"Stone." Always best Cornwall stone. 
"Paris white." Superior quality of 
whiting. 

"Parts." Always so many parts by 
weight, unless otherwise stated. 

"D. L. Zinc." Particular brand not 
essential. Any good quality oxide of 
zinc will do. 



Ruby and Maroon.— Preparation 
silver: " 1 

Nitric acid i 

Water... \ ?™« 

_ . , 1 ounce 

Dissolve the silver till saturated th 

put a plate of copper in the solution hi 

precipitate the silver m a metallic stat? 

Wash well with water to remove the actl 

tate of copper. 

Flux for Above.— Six dwts. white lear 
to 1 ounce prepared silver. 

Tin _ Solution.— Put the acid (aqua 
regia) in a bottle, add tin in small quan- 
tities until it becomes a dark-red color" 
let it stand about 4 days before use' 
When the acid becomes saturated it wili 
turn red at the bottom of the bottle, then 
shake it up and add more tin; let it stand 
and it will become clear. 

Aqua Regia. — 

Nitric acid 2 parts 

Muriatic acid 1 part 

Dissolve grain gold in the aqua regia 
so as to make a saturated solution. 
Take a basin and fill it 3 parts full of 
water; drop the solution of gold into it 
till it becomes an amber color. Into this 
solution of gold gradually drop the solu- 
tion of tin, until the precipitate is com- 
plete. Wash the precipitate until the 
water becomes tasteless, then dry slowly 
and flux as follows: 

Flux No. i.— 

Borax 3 parts 

Red lead 3 parts 

Flint 2 parts 

Run down. 

Rose Mixture. — 

Purple of Cassius 1 ounce 

Flux No. 1 6 ounces 

Prepared silver 3 dwts. 

Flint glass - 2 ounces 

Grind. 

Purple Mixture. — 

Purple of Cassius .... 1 ounce 
Flux No. 8 (see page 307) 0} ounces 
Flint glass 2 ounces 

Grind. 

Ruby. — 

Purple mixture 2 A parts 

Rose mixture 1} parts 

Grind. 

Maroon, — 

Rose mixture 1 P a ^ c 

Purple mixture 2 P arI5 

Grind. 



ENAMELING 



o^cfc-Extra quality.— 

Red oxide of iron ... 

Carbonate of cobalt . . 

n x ide of cobalt 

Black flux A (see next 

formula) 

(jlost fi^. 
Black Flax A.— 

Bed lead 

Calcined borax 

Lynn sand 

Run down. 
Black No. 2.— 

Oxide of copper . . . . - 

Carbonate of cobalt. . 

Flux No. 8 (see next 

column) - 

Grind only. 
Enamel White.— 

Arsenic ■ 

Niter 

Borax 

Flint 

Glass 

Red lead 

Glost fire. 

Turquoise. — China : 

Calcined copper. ... 

Whiting 

Phosphate of soda.. . . 

Oxide of zinc 

Soda crystals 

Magnesia 

Red lead . . 

tflux T (see next for- 
mula) 

Glost fire. 
Flux T.— 

Borax 

Sand 

Run down, 
Grange. — 

Orange U. G 

*hix No. 8 (see next 

column) , 

Grind only. 
Slue Green.— 

Flint glass 

^naniel white ". 

«orax. 

£ed lead 

Flint 

°*ide of coppcrl 

Cor al Red.— 
gromate of potash. 



12 parts 
12 parts 
1 part 

SO parts 



3 parts 
\ part 
1 part 



1 part 
J part 

4 parts 



9,\ parts 
1^ parts 
4 parts 
16 parts 
16 parts 
32 parts 



5 parts 
5 parts 
8 parts 
16 parts 
4 parts 
2 parts 
8 parts 

52 parts 



2 parts 
1 part 



1 part 
3 parts 



8 parts 
25 parts 

5 parts 
24 parts 

6 parts 
2^ parts 



I part 
lJ|r parts 



Grind. ' 3 parts flux for coral. 

Flux for Coral.— 

Red lead... A1 
Flint.. parts 

Flint gw: III™!* 

R» ±t parts 

un down. 



Turquoise. — 

Oxide of copper 5 

Borax. 10 

Flint. 12 parts 

Enamel white 14 p art3 

Red lead 40 

Glost fire. 



parts 
parts 



parts 



Flux Mb. 8.— 

Red lead 6 parts 

Borax 4 

Flint 



Run down. 



parts 
2 parts 



Russian Green. — 

Malachite green 10 

Enamel yellow 5 

Majolica white 5 

Flux No. 8 (see pre- 
vious formula) 2 

Grind only. 

Amber. — 

Oxide of uranium . . 1 
Coral flux 8 

Grind only. 

Gordon Green. — 

Yellow U. G.. .. . .. ... f 

Flux No. 8 (see above) 10 
Malachite green 10 

Grind only. 

Celadon. — 

Enamel light blue . . . 
Malachite green. .. 
Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Grind only. 

Red Brown.— 

Sulphate of iron, fared 
Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Grind only. 

Matt Blue.— 

Flux No. 8 (see above) 

Oxide of zinc - 

Oxide of cobalt 

Glost fire, then take 

Grind only. 



parts 
parts 
parts 

parts 



part 
parts 



parts 
parts 
parts 



I part 
1 part 
15 parts 



1 part 
3 parts 



parts 
5 " parts 
4 parts 

1 part 
parte 



