10,000 



10,000 FORMULAS 

FOR HOME, FARM, AND WORKSHOP 



Acid-Proofing 

An Acid-Pro of Table Top.— 
t 

Copper sulphate 1 part 

Potassium chlorate. ... 1 part 
Water 8 parts 

Boil until salts arc dissolved. 
2. 

Aniline hydroehlorate. 3 parts 

Water. 20 parts 

Or, if more readily procurable: 

Aniline 6 parts 

Hydrochloric acid 9 parts 

WWr 50 parts 

By the use of a brush two coats of so- 
lution No. 1 are applied while hot; the sec- 
ond coat as soon as the first is dry. Then 
two coats of solution No. 2, and the wood 
allowed to dry thoroughly. Later, a 
coat of raw linseed oil is to be applied, 
using a cloth instead of a brush, in order 
to get a thinner coat of the oil. 

A writer in the Journal of Applied 
Microscopy states that he has used this 
me pod upon some old laboratory tables 
which had been finished in the usual way, 
tae wood having been filled, oiled, and 
varnished. After scraping off the varnish 
down to the wood, the solutions were ap- 
plied, and the result was very satisfac- 
tory. 

After some experimentations the for- 
mula was modified without materially 
attecting the cost, and apparently in- 
creasing the resistance of the wood to the 
action of strong acids and alkalies. The 
modified formula follows: 

Iron sulphate 4 parts 

popper sulphate 4 parts 

rotassium pernaanga- 

^ate 8 parts 

Water, q. s .100 parts 



Aniline |g parts 

Hydrochloric acid."'.".' 18 parts 

Water, q- s .. ..100 parts 

Or: 

Aniline hydroehlorate 15 parts 
Water, q. s 100 parts 

Solution No. 2 has not been change 
except to arrange the parts per hundre 

The method of application is the sam 
except that after solution No. 1 has drie 
the excess of the solution which has dri 
upon the surface of the wood is tbo 
oughly rubbed off before the applicatio 
of solution No. 2. The black color do 
not appear at once, but usually requir 
a few hours before becoming ebo 
black. The linseed oil may be dilute 
with turpentine without disadvantag 
and after a few applications the surfa 
will take on a dull and not displea 
ing polish. The table tops are eas' 
cleaned by washing with water or su 
after a course of work is completed, a~ 
the application of another coat of o 
puts them in excellent order for anoth 
course of work. Strong acids or alkalie 
when spilled, if soon wiped off, hav 
scarcely a perceptible effect. 

A slate or tile top is expensive not onl 
in its original cost, but also as a destroy 
of glassware. Wood tops when pafnte 
oiled, or paraffined have objectionabl 
features, the latter especially in war- 
weather. Old tabic tops, after the pain 
or oil is scraped off down to the wood, 
take the above finish nearly as well as 
the new wood. 

To Make Wood Acid- and Chlorine- 
proof. — Take 6 pounds of wood tar and 
12 pounds rosin, and melt them together 
in an iron kettle, after which stir m 8 
pounds finely powdered brick dust. 
The damaged parts must be cleaned 
perfectly and dried, whereupon tney 
may be painted over with the warm 
preparation or filled up and drawn off, 
leaving the film on the inside. 

Protecting Cement Against Acid. —A 
paint to protect cement against acid is 
obtained by mixing pure asbestos, very 
finely powdered, with a thick solution or 



0 

«. m .jiTeate. The sodium silicate 
sodium silicate. poss ible. Hie 



ADHESIVES 



e 

small 




reservoirs, 
or liquid- 

ployed for making 



etc., against any 



stone 



JUL.' ^ 

To Make Corks Impermeab e and 
AcidVoof.-Choose .your corks^care^ 



ffl ™ ^ th T int roa° in 
of gelatin or common glue 15 parts m 

water, heated to 44° or 48 C. (112 iw 
F), and keep them there for several 
hours. On removing the corks. which 
should be weighted down m the solution 
dry them in the shade until they are free 
from all surplus moisture. They are now 
perfectly tight, retaining at the same 
time the greater portion of their elasticity 
and suppleness. To render them acid- 
proof, they should be treated with a 
mixture of vaseline, % parts, and para time 
7 parts, heated to about 105° P. This 
second operation may be avoided by 
adding to the gelatin solution a little 
ammonium dichromate and afterwards 
exposing the corks to the light. 

Lining for Acid Receptacles. — Plates 
are formed of 1 part of brown slate, £ 
of powdered glass, and 1 of Portland 
cement, the whole worked up with sili- 
cate of soda, molded and dried. Make 
a cement composed of ground slate and 
sflicate of soda and smear the surface 
for the lining; then, while it is still plastic, 
apply the plates prepared as above de- 
scribed. Instead of these plates, slabs 
of glass or porcelain or similar substances 
may be employed with the same cement. 

ACACIA, MUCILAGE OF : 

See Adhesives under Mucilages. 

ACID-PROOF GLASS: 
See Glass. 

ACID-RESISTIHG PAINT: 

See Paint. 
ADHESIVE PLASTER, TO RE- 
MOVE WITHOUT PAIN: 

OU of wintergreen applied to adhes 



Adhesives 

GLUES : 

Manufacture of Glue. — I.— The i lsilfl i 
process of removing the phosphate of 
lime from bones for glue-making ^ 
poses by means of dilute hydrochloric 
acid has the disadvantage that the acid 
cannot be regenerated. Attempts to u Se 
sulphurous acid instead have so fa r 
proved unsuccessful, as, even with the 
large quantities used, the process is very 
slow. According to a German invention 
this difficulty with sulphurous acid can 
be avoided by using it in aqueous solu- 
tion under pressure. The solution of 
the Hme goes on very rapidly, it is 
claimed, and no troublesome precipi- 
tation of calcium sulphite takes place. 
Both phosphate of lime and sulphurous 
acid are regenerated from the lyes by 
simple distillation. 

II, — Bones may be treated with suc- 
cessive quantities of combined sulphur- 
ous acid and water, from which the heat 
of combination has been previously dis- 
sipated, the solution being removed after 
each treatment, before the bone salts 
dissolved therein precipitate, and before 
the temperature rises above 74° 1)\— 
U. S. Pat. 783,784. » 

III. — A patent relating to the process 
for treating animal sinews, preparatory 
for the glue factory, has been granted to 
Florsheim, Chicago, and consists m im- 

mal sinews successively a 
e the outer 



hesiv?-^ ? om P! etri y. destroy its ad- 
Sary 

oil, which is applied directly to the pl aB - 

IZ " aSUy Spreads itself throughout 
the adhesive material. "fenout 



re ; power in a short time. It is neces- 
S ,7 J5^f. onl y. a . SI ? ia11 am °unt of the 



mersing ami 



petroleum or benzine toreinov 
fleshy animal skin; in a hardening or 
preserving bath, as boric acid, or a » 
or copper sulphate; and in an , alKa " h 
bath to remove fatty matte ' / r0 ? L s 
fibrous part of the si news. 1 te d. 
are afterwards tanned and disintegr 

Test for Glue.— The more wjtgjfj 
glue takes up, swelling it, the d 
is. Pour ounces of the glue to De c & 
ined are soaked for about 12 hour jf 
cool place in 4 pounds of coW ^ Lj. it 
the glue has dissolved after tins tf 
T« of U*A „„„Ut w little value '^j 1 j n g 



is of bad quality and of little ; 
it is coherent, gelatinous, ana ^ * l6 
double, it is good; if it weighs uj^ ftS 
ounces, it is very good > it tl ]le0 t. 
20 ounces, it may be called ex«- • fl 

To Prevent Glue from . CraC ^| fTf re- 
prevent glue from cracking. ,| c j eS atf 
quently occurs when glued » rw 



ADHESIVES 



1" 



exposed to the heat of a stove, a little 
chloride of potassium is added. This 
prevents the glue from becoming dry 
enough to crack:. Glue thus treated will 
adhere to glass, mefaTs, etc., and may 
also be used for pasting on labels. 

Preventing the Putrefaction of Strong 
Qi ues . — The fatty matter always existing 
in small quantity in sheets of ordinary 
glue affects the adhesive properties and 
facilitates the development of bacteria, 
and consequently putrefaction and de- 
composition. These inconveniences are 
remedied by adding a small quantity of 
caustic soda to the dissolved glue. The 
soda prevents decomposition absolutely; 
with the fatty matter it forms a hard soap 
which renders it harmless. 

Liquid Glues. — 

I. — Glue 3 ounces 

Gelatin 3 ounces 

Acetic acid 4 ounces 

Water 2 ounces 

Alum 30 grains 

Heat together for 6 hours, skim, and 
add: 

II. — Alcohol 1 fluidounce 

Brown glue, No. 2. . 2 pounds 
Sodium carbonate . . 11 ounces 

Water '6\ pints 

Oil of clove 160 minims 

Dissolve the soda in the water, pour 
the solution over the dry glue, let stand 
over night or till thoroughly soaked and 
swelled, then heat carefully on a water 
bath until dissolved. When nearly cold 
stir in the oil of cloves. 

By using white glue, a finer article, fit 
for fancy work, may be made. 

III. — Dissolve by heating 00 parts of 
borax in 4Q0 parts of water, add 480 
parts dextrin (pale yellow) and 50 parts 
of glucose and heat carefully with con- 
tinued stirring, to complete solution; 
replace the evaporated water and pour 
through flannel. 

The glue made in this way remains 
clear quite a long time, and possesses 
great adhesive power; it also dries very 
quickly, but upon careless and extended 
heating above 90° C. (194° it is apt 
to turn brown and brittle. 

IV. — Pour .50 parts of warm (not hot) 
water over 50 parts of Cologne glue and 
allow to soak over night. Next day the 
swelled glue is dissolved with moderate 
heat, and if still too thick, a little more 
water is added. When this is done, add 
from 2£ to 3 parts of crude nitric acid, 
stir well, and fill the liquid glue in well- 
corked bottles. This is a good liquid 
st-eam glue. 



V —Soak 1 pound of good glue in 
quart of water lor a few hours, then mel 
the glue by heatmg it, together with th 
ymabsorbed water, then stir in \ poun 
dry white lead, and when that is wel 
mixed pour in 4 fluidounces of alcoho 
and continue the boiling 5 minutes longe 

VI. — boak 1 pound of good glue in 1 
pints of cold water for 5 hours, then a 1 
3 ounces of zinc sulphate and 2 fiui 
ounces of hydrochloric acid, and ke 
the mixture heated for 10 or IS hours 
175° to 190 Q F. The glue remains liq 
and may be used for sticking a variety 
materials. 

VII. — A very inexpensive liquid gl 
may be prepared by first soaking a 
then dissolving gelatin in twice its o 
weight of water at a very gentle he 
then add glacial acetic acid in weig 
equal to the weight of the dry gelati 
It should be remembered, however, th 
all acid glues are not generally appli- 
ble. 

VIII.— Glue ... 200 parts 

Dilute acetic acid. . 400 parts 
Dissolve by the aid of heat and add 

Alcohol 25 parts 

Alum 5 parts 

IX. — Glue . . . . 5 parts 

Calcium chloride.. 1 part 

Water 1 part 

X. — Sugar of lead H drach 

Alum 1 1 drach 

Gum arabic 2$ drach 

W T heat flour 1 av. Ill 

Water, q. s. 

Dissolve the gum in 2 quarts of war: 
water; when cold mix in the flour, a 
add the sugar of lead and alum dissolv 
in water; heat the whole over a slow fi 
until it shows signs of ebullition, .Let 
cool, and add enough gum water to bn 
it to the proper consistence. 

XI. — Dilute 1 part of official pn 
phoric acid with 2 parts of water and I ne 
tralize the solution with carbonate 
ammonium. Add to the liquid an equ 
quantity of water, warm rt on a wat 
bath, and dissolve in it sufficient glue 
form a thick syrupy liquid. Keep 
well-stoppered bottles. 

XII. -- Dissolve 3 parts of glue m ,m 
pieces in 12 to 15 of saccharate of hm 
fiy heating, the glue d.ssolyes rap d 
and remains liquid, when cold, witho 
loss of adhesive power. Any desirab' 
consistence can be secured by vary n 
the amount of saccharate of lime 1 J? 
glue retains its muddy color, while a t 
solution becomes clear on standing. 

The saccharate of lime is prepared 



ADHESIVES 



AW vine 1 part of sugar in 3 P ar *s of 
water a» d after adding } part of the 
;*h\ of the sncar of slaked lime, heat- 
5 whole f35 149° to 185° P., allow- 
ing it to macerate for several days s haking 
t frequently. The solution, which has 
the properties of mucilage, is then de- 
canted from the sediment. 

XIIL— In a solution of borax in water 
soak a pood quantity of glue until it has 
thoroughly imbibed the liquid. Pour oft 
the surplus solution and then put on 
the water bath and melt the glue. Cool 
down until the glue begins to set, then 
add, drop by drop, with agitation, 
enough acetic acid to check the tendency 
to solidification. If, after becoming 
quite cold, there is still a tendency to 
solidification, add a few drops more of 
the acid. The liquid should be of the 
consistence of ordinary mucilage at all 
times. 

XIV.— Gelatin... , 100 parts 

Cabinetmakers' glue. 100 parts 

Alcohol 25 parts 

Alum..... 2 parts 

Acetic acid, 20 per 

cent 800 parts 

Soak the gelatin and glue with the 
acetic acid and heat on a water bath until 
fluid; then add the alum and alcohol. 

XV.— Glue 10 parts 

Water IS parts 

Sodium salicylate. ... 1 part 

XVI. Soak 5 parts of Cologne glue 
in an aqueous calcium chloride solution 
(1 : 4) and heat on the water bath until 
dissolved, replacing the evaporating 
water; or slack 100 parts of lime with 150 
parts of hot water, dissolve 60 parts of 
sugar in 180 parts of water, and add 15 
parts of the slacked lime to the solution, 
heating the whole to 75° C. (107° F.). 
Place aside for a few days, shaking from 
time to time. In the clear sugar-lime 
solution collected by decanting soak 60 
parts of glue and assist the solution by 
moderate heating. 

XVII. — Molasses, 100 parts, dissolved 
in 300 parts of water, 25 parts of quick- 
lime (slaked to powder), being then 
stirred in and the mixture heated to 167° 
F. on a water bath, with frequent stir- 
rings. After settling for a few days a 
large portion of the lime will have dis- 
solved, and the clear, white, thick solu- 
tion, when decanted, behaves like rubber 
solution and makes a highly adherent 
coating. 

XVIII. — Dissolve bone glue, 250 
parts, by heating in 1,000 parts of water, 
and add to the solution barium perox- 

de 10 parts, sulphuric acid (66° B.) 5 



Earts, and water 15 parts. Heat for 48 
ours on the water bath to 80° C. (176° 
P.). Thus a syrupy liquid is obtained, 
which is allowed to settle and is then 
decanted. This glue has no unpleasant 
odor, and does not mold. 

XIX. — A glue possessing the adhesive 
qualities of ordinary joiners^ glue, but 
constituting a pale yellow liquid which ia 
ready for use without requiring heating 
and possesses great resistance to damp- 
ness, is produced by treating dry casein 
with a diluted borax solution or with 
enough ammonia solution to cause a 
faintly alkaline reaction. The prepara- 
tion may be employed alone or mixed 
with liquid starch in any proportion. 

Glue for Celluloid. — I. — Two parts 
shellac, 3 parts spirits of camphor, and 4 
parts strong alcohol dissolved in a warm 
place, give an excellent gluing agent to fix 
wood, tin, and other bodies to celluloid. 
The glue must be kept well corked up. 

II. — A collodion solution may be used, 
or an alcoholic solution of fine celluloid 
shavings. 

Glue to Form Paper Pads.— 

I. — Glue 3£ ounces 

Glycerine 8 ounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Pour upon the glue more than enough 
water to cover it and let stand for several 
hours, then decant the greater portion of 
the water; apply heat until the glue is 
dissolved, and add the glycerin. If the 
mixture is too thick, add more water. 

II. — Glue 6 ounces 

Alum 30 grains 

Acetic acid h ounce 

Alcohol 1 i ounces 

Water 6 1 ounces 

Mix all but the alcohol, digest on a 
water bath till the glue is dissolved, allow 
to cool and add the alcohol. 

Ill— Glue 5 ounces 

Water - . 1 ounce 

Calcium chloride. . 1 ounce 
Dissolve the calcium chloride in the 
water, add the glue, macerate until it is 
thoroughly softened, and then heat unW 
completely dissolved. 

IV.— Glue 20 ounces 

Glycerine 5 ounces 

Syrupy glucose. . . 1 ounce 

Tannin 50 grains 

Cover the glue with cold water, and let 
stand over night. In the morning pour 
off superfluous water, throw the glue or* 
muslin, and manipulate so as to get rnJ 
of as much moisture as possible, then pu* 
in a water bath and melt. Add the give 



ADHESIVES 



erine and syrup, and stir well in. Fi- 
nally, dissolve the tannin in the smallest 
quantity of water possible and add. 
This mixture must be used hot. 

V, — Glue 15 ounces 

Glycerine 5 ounces 

Linseed oil 2 ounces 

Sugar 1 ounce 

Soak the glue as before, melt, add the 
sugar and glycerine, continuing the heat, 
and finally add the oil gradually under 
constant stirring. 

This must be used hot. 

Glue for Tablets.— 

L — Glue 3i ounces 

Glycerine 8 ounces 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Pour upon the glue more than enough 
water to cover it and let stand for several 
hours, then decant the greater portion of 
the water; apply heat until the glue is 
dissolved, and add the glycerine. If the 
mixture is too thick, add more water. 

H. — Glue 6 ounces 

Alum. 30 grains 

Acetic acid $ ounce 

Alcohol l| ounces 

Water 6| ounces 

Mix all but the alcohol, digest on a 
water bath till the glue is dissolved, allow 
to cool and add the alcohol. 

IH.-Gl ue 5 ounces 

Water 1 ounce 

Calcium chloride. , . 1 ounce 

Dissolve the calcium chloride in the 
water, add the glue, macerate until it is 
thoroughly softened, and then apply heat 
until completely dissolved. 

IV. — Glue, 1 pound; glycerine, 4 ounces; 
glucose syrup, 2 tablespoonfuls; tannin, 
rV ounce. Use warm, and give an hour 
to dry and set on the pads. This can be 
colored with any aniline dye. 

Marine Glue. — Marine glue is a prod- 
uct consisting of shellac and caoutchouc, 
which is mixed differently according to 
the use for which it is required. The 
quantity of benzol used as solvent gov- 
erns the hardness or softness of the glue. 

I- —One part Para caoutchouc is dis- 
solved in 12 parts benzol; 20 parts pow- 
dered shellac are added to the solution, 
and the mixture is carefully heated. 

II. — Stronger glue is obtained by dis- 
solving 10 parts good crude caoutchouc 
m 120 parts benzine or naphtha which 
solution is poured slowly and in a fine 
stream into 20 parts asphaltum melted 
in a kettle, stirring constantly and heat- 
mg. Pour the finished glue, after the 
solvent has almost evaporated and the 



mass has become quite uniform, into 

Ehfe ^A 1Ch i ^^fies into very] Lar" 
tablets of dark brown or black colo 
For use, these glue tablets are fim soak 
in boiling water and then heated over 
free flame until the marine glue has b 
come thinly l iqu id. The pieces to b 
glued are also warmed and a verv durab 
union is obtained. 

9 ut cacm tchouc into small pie 
and dissolve m coal naphtha by heat 
agitation. Add to this solution po 
dered shellac, and heat the whole, co 
stantly stirring until combination tak 
place, then pour it on metai plates to for 
sheets. When used it must be heated 
24-8° F., and applied with a brush. 

Water-Proof Glues. — I. — The glue 
put in water till it is soft, and sub 
quently melted in linseed oil at modcr" 
heat. This glue is affected neither 
water nor by vapors. 

II. — Dissolve a small quantity of si 
darac and mastic in a little alcohol, a 
add a little turpentine. The solution 
boiled in a kettle over the fire, and 
equal quantity of a strong hot solution 
glue and isinglass is added. Then fil 
through a cloth while hot, 

III. — Water- pro of glue may also 
produced by the simple addition 
bichromate of potassium to the liquid g 
solution, and subsequent exposure to 
air. 

IV. — Mix glue as usual, and then a 
linseed oil in the proportion of 1 part 
to 8 parts glue. If it is desired that t 
mixture remain liquid, i ounce of ni 
acid should be added to every pound 
glue. This will also prevent the 
from souring. 

V. — In 1,000 parts of rectified alco 
dissolve 60 parts of sandarac and 
much mastic whereupon add 60 parts 
white oil of turpentine. Next, prepare 
rather strong glue solution and add abo 
the like quantity of isinglass, heating t 
solution until it commences to boil; th 
slowly add the hot glue solution til la thi 
paste forms, which can still be nJtere 
through a cloth. Heat the solution b 
fore use and employ like ordinary glu 
A connection effected with this glue i 
not dissolved by cold water and eve 
resists hot water for a long time. 

VI. —Soak 1,000 parts of Cologne gt 
in cold water for 12 hours and >n anoth 
vessel for the same length of time 15 
narts of isinglass in a mixture of lam 
s P pTrit and wlter. Then dissolve : b o 
masses together on the water ball in 
suitable vessel, tb.nnmg if necessary 
with some hot water. Next add 



14 



ADHESIVES 



parts of Unseed oil varnish and filter hot 

^fJSrdinary glue is kept in water 
Until it swells up without losing its shape. 
Thus softened *it is. placed ib an iron 
crucible without adding water; then add 
finseed oil according to the quantity ^ of 
the clue and leave tins mixture to boil 
over a slow fire until a gelatinous mass 
results. Such glue unites materials in a 
very durable manner. It adheres firmly 
and hardens quickly. . Its chief ad van- 
tage, however, consists in that it neither 
absorbs water nor allows it to pass 
through, whereby the connecting places 
are often destroyed. A little borax will 
prevent putrefaction. . 
r YUl —Bichromate of potassium 40 
parte (by weight); gelatin glue, 65 parts; 
alum, 5 parts. Dissolve the glue m a 
little water and add the bichromate of 
potassium and the alum. _ 

IX. — This preparation permits an ab- 
solutely permanent gluing of pieces of 
cardboard, even when they are moist- 
ened by water. Melt together equal 
parts of good pitch and gutta-percha; of 
this take 9 parts, and add to it 3 parts of 
boiled linseed oil and parts of litharge. 
Place this over the fire and stir it till all 
the ingredients are intimately mixed. 
The mixture may be diluted with a little 
benzine or oil of turpentine, and must be 
warm when used. 

Glue to Fasten Linoleum on. Iron 
Stairs. — I. — Use a mixture of glue, isin- 
glass, and dextrin which, dissolved in 
water and heated, is given an admixture- 
of turpentine. The strips pasted down 
must be weighted with boards and brick 
on top until the adhesive agent has hard- 
ened. 

II. — Soak 3 parts of glue in 8 parts 
water, add £ part hydrochloric acid and 
f part zinc vitriol and let this mixture 
boil several hours. Coat the floor and 
the back of the linoleum with this. 
Pr^ss the linoleum down uniformly and 
firmly and weight it for some time. 

Glue for Attaching Gloss to Precious 
Metals. — Sandarac varnish, 15 parts; 
marine glue, 5 parts; drying oil, 5 parts; 
white lead, 5_ parts; Spanish white, 5 
parts; turpentine, 5 parts. Triturate all to 
form a rather homogeneous paste. This 
glue becomes very hard and resisting. 

Elastic Glue. — Although elastic glue is 
less durable than rubber, and will not 
stand much heat, yet it is cheaper than 
rubber, and is not, like rubber affected 
by oil colors. Hence it is largely used 
for printing rollers and stamps. For 



stamps, good glue is soaked for 94 hours 
in soft water. The water is poured off, 
and the swollen glue is melted and mixed 
with glycerine and a little salicylic acid 
and cast into molds. The durability is in- 
creased by painting the mass with a solu- 
tion of tannin, or, better, of bichromate 
of potassium. Printing rollers require 
greater firmness and elasticity. The 
mass for them once consisted solely of 
glue and vinegar, and their manufacture 
was very difficult. The use of glycerine 
has remedied this, and gives great elas- 
ticity without adhesiveness, and has re- 
moved the liability of moldiness. Swol- 
len glue, which has been superficially 
dried, is fused with glycerine and cast 
into oil molds. Similar mixtures are 
used for casting plaster ornaments, etc., 
and give very snarp casts. A mass con- 
sisting of glue and glycerine is poured 
over the model in a box. When the mold 
is removed, it is painted with plaster out- 
side and with boiled oil inside, and can 
then be used many times for making re- 
productions of the model. 

Glue for Paper and Metal. — A glue 
which will keep well and adhere tightly 
is obtained by diluting 1,000 parts by 
weight of potato starch in 1,200 parts by 
weight of water and adding 50 parts by 
weight of pure nitric acid. The mixture 
is kept in a hot place for 48 hours, taking 
care to stir frequently. It is afterwards 
boiled to a thick and transparent consist- 
ency, diluted with water if there is occa- 
sion, and then there are added in the 
form of a screened powder, % parts of sal 
ammoniac and 1 part of sulphur flowers. 

Glue for Attaching Cloth Strips to Iron. 
—Soak 500 parts of Cologne glue in the 
evening with clean cold water in a clean 
vessel; in the morning pour off the water, 
place the softened glue without admix- 
ture of water into a clean copper ot 
enamel receptacle, which is put on a mod- 
erate low fire (charcoal or stcarn appa- 
ratus). During the dissolution the mass 
must be continually stirred with a wood- 
en trowel or spatula. If the glue is too 
thick, it is thinned with diluted spirit, 
but not with water. As soon as the glue 
has reached the boiling point,_ about 50 
parts of linseed oil varnish (boiled oil) is 
added to the mass with constant stirring. 
When the latter has been stirred up well, 
add 50 parts of powdered colophony and 
shake it into the mass with stirring, 
subsequentlv removing the glue from fne 
fire. In order to increase the binding 
qualities and to guard against moisture, 
it is well still to add about 50 parts ot 
isinglass, which has been previously cur 



ADHESIVES 



into narrow strips and placed, well 
beaten, m a vessel, into which enough 
spirit of wine has been poured to cover 
all. When dissolved, the last - named 
njass is added to the boiling glue with 
constant stirring. The adhesive agent 
is now ready for use and is employed hot, 
it being advisable to warm the iron also. 
Apply glu e on Iy to a surface equivalent 
to a single strip at a time. The strips are 
pressed down with a stiff brush or a wad 
of cloth. 

Glue for Leather or Cardboard. — To 

attach leather to cardboard dissolve 
good glue (softened by swelling in water) 
with a little turpentine and enough water 
in an ordinary glue pot, and then having 
■nade a thick paste with starch in the 
proportion of 2 parts by weight, of starch 
powder for every 1 part, by weight, of 
drv gine, mix the compounds and allow 
the mixture to become cold before appli- 
cation to the cardboard. 

For Wood, Glass, Cardboard, and all 
Articles of a Metallic or Mineral Char- 
acter, — Take boiled linseed oil SO parts, 
Flemish glue 20 parts, hydrated lime 15 
parts, powdered turpentine 5 parts, alum 
5 parts acetic acid 5 parts. Dissolve the 
glue with the acetic acid, add the alum, 
then the hydrated lime, and finally the 
turpentine " and the boiled linseed oil. 
Triturate all well until it forms a homo- 
geneous paste and keep in well-closed 
flasks. Use like any other glue. 

Glue for Uniting Metals with Fabrics. 

— Cologne glue of good quality is soaked 
and boiled down to the consistency of 
that used by cabinetmakers. Then add, 
with constant stirring, sifted wood ashes 
until a moderately thick, homogeneous 
mass results. Use hot and press the 
pieces well together during the drying. 
For tinfoil about 2 per cent of boracic 
acid should be added instead of the wood 
ashes. 

Glue or Paste for Making Paper 
Boxes. — 

Chloral hydrate 5 parts 

Gelatin, white 8 parts 

Gum arable 2 parts 

Boiling water 30 parts 

Mix ^ the chloral, gelatin, and gum 
arabic in a porcelain container, pour the 
boiling water over the mixture and let 
stand for 1 day, giving it a vigorous stir- 
ring several times during the day. In 
cold weather this is apt to get hard and 
stiff, but this may be obviated by stand- 
ing the container in warm water for a 
few minutes. This paste adheres to any 
surface whatever. 



Natural Glue for Cementing Porcel 1 
Crystal Glass, etc.- The large s h t 
snails winch are found in vineyards hav 

whitish bladder filled with a substan 
of greasy and gelatinous aspect. If t 
substance extracted from the bladder 
applied on the fragments of porcelain 
any body whatever, which are juxtapos 
by being made to touch at all parts, th 
acquire such adhesion that if one striv 
to separate them by a blow, they a 
more liable to break at another pla 
than the cemented seam. It is necessa 
to give this glue sufficient time to dry p 
fectly, so as to permit it to acquire t 
highest degree of strength and tenacity 

Belt Glue. — A glue for belts can 
prepared as follows; Soak 50 parts 
gelatin in water, pour off the excess 
water, and heat on the water bath. W 
good stirring add, first, 5 parts, 
weight, of glycerine, then 10 parts, 
weight, of turpentine, and 5 parts, by 
weight, of linseed oil varnish and thin 
with water as required. The ends of the 
belts to be glued are cut off obliquely and 
warmed; then the hot glue is applied, and 
the united parts are subjected to strong 
pressure, allowing them to dry thus for 
24 hours before the belts are used. 

Chromium Glue for Wood, Paper, and 
Cloth. — I. — (a) One-half pound strong 
glue (any glue if color is immaterial, 
white fish glue otherwise); soak 12 hours 
in 12 fluidounces of cold water, (4) One- 
quarter pound gelatin; soak 2 hours in 
12 fluidounce? cold water, (c) Two 
ounces bichromate of potassium dis- 
solved in 8 fluidounces boiling water. 
Dissolve (a) after soaking, in a glue pot, 
and add (6) . After (a) and (b) are mixed 
and dissolved, stir in (e). This glue is 
exceedingly strong, and if the article 
cemented be exposed to strong sunlight 
for 1 hour, the glue becomes perfectly 
waterproof. Of course, it is understood 
that the exposure to sunlight is to »e 
made after the glue is thoroughly dry- 
The one objectionable # feature of this 
cement is its color, which is a yeUow- 
brown. By substituting chrome alum 
in place of the bichromate, an olive color 

" Il^Use a moderately strong gelatin 
solution (containing 5 to 10 per cent of 
dry gelatin), to which about 1 part ot 
acfd chromate of potassium in solution* 
added to every 5 parts of g Jatm. 
mixture has the property of b econung in 
soluble by water through the action or 
sunlight under partial reduction of the 
chromic acid. 



16 



ADHESIVES 



Fireproof Gltie.- 

Raw linseed ml 8 parts 

Glue or gelatin g 

Quicklime 3 parts 

Soak the glue or gelatin m the oil for 

lavers to dry gradually, out ot tne suns 
rays For use, reheat the glue in a glue 
pot in the ordinary way of melting glue. 

CEMENTS. 

Under this heading will be found only 
cements for causing one substance to ad- 
here to another. Cements used prima- 
rily as fillers, such as dental cements, 
will be found under Cements, Putties, 
etc. 

Cutlers' Cements for Fixing Knife 
Blades into Handles.— 

I,— Rosin 4 pounds 

Beeswax 1 pound 

Plaster of Paris or 

brickdust 1 pound 

II.— Pitch 5 pounds 

Wood ashes 1 pound 

Tallow 1 pound 

III. — Rosin, 12; sulphur flowers, 3; 
iron filings, 5. Melt together, fill the 
handle while hot, and insert the instru- 
ment. 

IV. — Plaster of Paris is ordinarily 
used for fastening loose handles. It is 
made into a moderately thick paste with 
water run into the hole in the head of the 
pestle, the handle inserted and held in 
place till the cement hardens. Some add 
sand to the paste, and claim to get better 
results. 

V— Boil together 1 part of caustic soda, 
8 parts of rosin, and 5 parts of water till 
homogeneous and add 4 parts of plaster 
of Paris. The paste sets m half an hour 
and is but little affected by water. 

Y I *r~,? qijal quantities of gutta percha 
and shellac are melted together and well 
stirred. This is best done in an iron cap- 
sule placed on a sandbath and heated 
over a gas furnace or on the top of a 
sto\e. i ne combination possesses both 
hardness and toughness, qualities that 
jnake it particularly desirable in mend- 

the £S T a ? d Pestles - Iti usi *g> 
™ i C i 6S i t0 be cemented should be 

S™« Infc 1 ^ Point of the 
until ™Jf stained in proper position 
unth cool, wheil tkey are ready f £ r use> 

VII..— Kosin Ron \ 

suipbur Sol P £f 

iron filings S50 J weight. 



Pour the mixture, hot, into the openin 
of the heated handle and shove in tlr 
knife likewise heated. " ie 

VIII. — Melt sufficient black rosin anil 
incorporate thoroughly with it one-fifth rk 
weight of very fine silver sand. M a k» 
the pestle hot, pour in a little of the nux. 
ture, then force the handle well home" 
and set aside for a day before usim*. ' 

IX. — Make a smooth, moderately soft 
paste with litharge and glycerine; fill the 
hole in the pestle with the cement, and 
firmly press the handle in place, keeping 
it uuder pressure for three or four days. 

Cements for Stone. — I. — An excellent 
cement for broken marble consists of 4 
parts of gypsum and 1 part of finely 
powdered gum arabic. Mix intimately. 
Then with a cold solution of borax make 
into a mortarlike mass. Smear on each 
face of the parts to be joined, and fasten 
the' bits of marble together. In the 
course of a few days the cement becomes 
very hard and holds very tenaciously. 
The object mended should not be touched 
for several days. In mending colored 
marbles the cement may be given the hue 
of the marble by adding the color to tne 
borax solution. 

II. — A cement which dries instanta- 
neously, qualifying it for all sorts of re- 
pairing and only presenting the disad- 
vantage of having to be freshly prepared 
each time, notwithstanding any subse- 
quent heating, may be made as follows: 
In a metal vessel or iron spoon melt 4 to 
5 parts of rosin (or preferably mastic) 
and 1 part of beeswax. This mixture 
must be applied rapidly it being of ad- 
vantage slightly to heat the surfaces to be 
united, which naturally must have been 
previously well cleaned. 

III. — Slaked lime, 10 parts; chalk, 15 
parts; kaolin, 5 parts; mix, and imme- 
diately before use stir with a correspond- 
ing amount of potash water glass. 

IV. — Cement on Marble Slabs.— The 
whole marble slab is thoroughly warmed 
and laid face down upon a neatly cieanea 

5 lencloth 

poli: 

the" slab. Next apply to the slab very 
hot, weak glue and quickly sift hot plaster 
of Paris on the glue in a thin even layer, 
stirring the plaster rapidly into tbe : ap 
plied glue by means of a strong spat" 1*. 
so that a uniform glue-plaster coatu.g 
is formed on the warm slab. ~iece 
has time to harden tip the respective pi 
of furniture on the slab. Th- i^me, l ikp 
wise warmed, will adhere very firmly ■ 
slab after two days. Besides, this proce 
has the advantage of great cleanliness 



»nu lain race uown iipuii a, uwwj , 

planing bench upon which a woolen clot 
is spread so as not to injure the polist 1 ° 



ADHESIVES 



V. — The f ollowing is a recipe used by 
marble worKers, and which probably 
can be used to advantage: Flour of sul- 
phur, 1 part; hydroclilorate of am- 
monia, 2 parts; iron filinga, 1G parts. 
The above substances must be reduced 
to a powder, and securely preserved 
in closely stoppered vessels. When the 
cement IS to be employed, take 20 parts 
very fine iron filings and X part of the 
above powder; mix them together with 
enough water to form a manageable 
paste. Tins paste solidifies in 20 days 
and becomes as hard as iron. A recipe 
for anothf cement useful for joining 
small pieces of marble or alabaster is as 
follows: Add 1 pint of vinegar to * pint 
skimmed milk; mix the curd with the 
whites of 5 eggs, well beaten, and suffi- 
cient powdered quicklime sifted in wilh 
constant stirring so as to form a paste. 
It resists water and a moderate degree of 
heat. 

VI. — Cement for Iron and Marble. — 

For fastening iron to marble or stone a 
good cement is made as follows: Thirty 
parts plaster of Paris, 10 parts iron filings, 
h part sal ammoniac mixed with vinegar 
to a fluid paste fresh for use. 

Cement for Sandstones. — One part 
sulphur and 1 part rosin are melted 
separately; the melted masses are mixed 
and 3 parts litharge and 2 parts ground 
glass stirred in. The latter ingredients 
must be perfectly dry, and have been 
well pulverized and mixed previously. 

Equally good cement is obtained by 
melting together 1 part pitch and tV part 
wax, and mixing with 2 parts brickdust. 

The stones to be cemented, or be- 
tween the joints of which the putty is to 
be poured, must be perfectly dry. If 
practicable, they should be warmed a 
little, and the surfaces to which the putty 
is to adhere painted with oil varnish 
once or twice. The above two formulae 
are of especial value in case the stones 
are very much exposed to the heat of the 
sun in summer, as well as to cold, rain, 
and snow in winter. Experience has 
shown that in these instances the above- 
mentioned cements give better satisfac- 
tion than the other brands of cement. 

Cements for Attaching Objects to 
Glass. — 

Rosin 1 part 

Yellow wax 2 parts 

Melt together. 

To Attach. _ Copper to Glass. — Boil 1 
Part of caustic soda and 3 parts of co- 
lophony in 5 parts of water and mix with 
the like quantity of plaster of Paris. 



This cement is not attacked by wat 
heat, and petroleum. If, in place of f 
plaster of Pans, zinc white, white lea 
or slaked lime is used, the cement har 
ens more slowly. 

To Fasten Brass upon Glass.— Boil t 
gether 1 part of caustic soda, 3 parts » 
rosin, 3 parts of gypsum, and 5 parts o 
water. Ike cement made in this way 
hardens in about half an hour, hence it 
must be applied quickly. During the 
preparation it should be stirred con- 
stantly. All the ingredients used must 
be in a finely powdered state. 

Uniting Glass with Horn. — (1) A solu- 
tion of £ parts of gelatin in 20 parts water 
is evaporated up to one-sixth of its volume 
and ^ mastic dissolved in \ spirit added 
and some zinc white stirred in. The 
putty is applied warm; it dries easily 
and can be kept a long time. (2) Mix 
gold size with the equal volume of water 
glass. 

To Cement Glass to Iron. — 

I. — Rosin 5 ounces 

Yellow wax 1 ounce 

Venetian red 1 ounce 

Melt the wax and rosin on a water 
bath and add, under constant stirring, the 
Venetian red previously well dried. Stir 
until nearly cool, so as to prevent the Ve- 
netian red from settling to the bottom. 

II. — Portland cement 2 ounces 

Prepared chalk 1 ounce 

Fine sand 1 ounce 

Solution of sodium silicate 
enough to form a semi- 
liquid paste. 

HI.— Litharge 2 parts 

White lead . - - 1 part 

Work into a pasty condition by using 
3 parts boiled linseed oil, 1 part copal 
varnish. 

Celluloid Cements.— I.— To mend brok- 
en draughting triangles and other cellu- 
loid articles, use 3 parts alcohol and 4 
parts ether mixed together and *VP\f *° 
the fracture with a brush until the edges 
become warm. The edges are then 
sS together, and left to Sry for at least 

^L-Camphor, 1 part; alcohol 4 parts. 
Dissolve ana add equal quantity (by 
weight} of shellac to this solution. 
We ifrilf firmness is desired m putting 
celluloid on wood, tin, etc the fofiowin| 
gluing agent 's^ reeommended viz A 

compound of » P arrs , ^ 1~ ' fo .from? 
spirit of camphor, and 4 parts strong 

alcohol. 




IV— Shellac •• 9 ounces 

Spirits of camphor.. 2 ounces 
Alcohol, 90 per cent. . 6 to 8 ounces 
V —Make a moderately strong glue or 
Solution of gelatin. In a dark place or 
a dark room mix with the above a small 
amount of concentrated solution of potas- 
sium diohromate. Coat the back of the 
label, which must be clean, with a thin 
layer of the mixture. Strongly press the 
label against the bottle and keep the two 
in close contact by tying with twine or 
otherwise. Expose to sunlight for some 
hours; this causes the cement to be insol- 
uble even in hot water. 

VI.— Lime av. oz. 1 

White of egg av. 02. %\ 

Plaster of Paris av. oz. 5* 

Water fl. oz. 1 

Reduce the lime to a fine powder; mix 
it with the white of egg by trituration, 
forming a uniform paste. Dilute with 
water, rapidly incorporate the plaster of 
Paris, and use the cement immediately. 
The surfaces to be cemented must first 
be moistened with water so that the ce- 
ment will readily adhere. The pieces 
must be firmly pressed together and kept 
in this position for about 12 hours. 

Cementing Celluloid and Hard-Rubber 
Articles. — I. — Celluloid articles ean be 
mended by making a mixture com- 
posed of 3 parts of alcohol and 4 parts of 
ether. This mixture should be kept in 
a well-corked bottle, and when celluloid 
articles are to be mended, the broken 
surfaces are painted over with the alcohol 
and ether mixture until the surfaces 
soften: then press together and bind and 
allow to dry for at least 24 hours. 

II. — Dissolve 1 part of gum camphor 
in 4 parts of alcohol; dissolve an equal 
weight of shellac in such strong camphor 
solution. The cement is applied warm 
and the parts united must not be dis- 
turbed until the cement is hard. Hard- 
rubber articles are never mended to form 
a strong joint. 

HI. — Melt together equal parts of 
gutta percha and real asphaltum. The 
cement is applied hot, and the broken 
surfaces pressed together and held in 
place while cooling. 

Sign-Letter Cements.— 

* — £°P al varnish 15 parts 

Drying oil 5 parts 

turpentine (spirits). 3 parts 

Oil of turpentine. ... 2 parts 

Liquefied glue 5 parts 

Melt all together on a water bath until 

lime tlien add 10 partS Slaked 



II.— Mix 100 parts finely powdered 
white litharge with 50 parts dry white 
lead, knead together 3 parts linseed oil 
varnish and 1 part copal varnish into a 
firm dough. Coat the side to be attached 
with this, removing the superfluous 7 ce- 
ment. It will dry quickly and become 
very hard. 

ITT — Copal varnish ...... 15 parts 

Linseed -oil varnish . 5 parts 
Raw turpentine. .... 3 parts 

Oil of turpentine. ... 2 parts 

Carpenters' glue, dis- 
solved in water ... 5 parts 
Precipitated chalk. . 10 parts 

IV. — Mastic gum 1 part 

Litharge, lead 2 parts 

White lead 1 part 

Linseed oil S parts 

Melt together to a homogeneous mass. 
Apply hot. To make a thorough and 
reliable job, the letters should be heated 
to at least the temperature of the cement. 

To Fix Gold Letters, etc., upon Glass. 
— I. — The glass must be entirely clean and 
polished, and the medium is prepared in 
the following manner: One ounce fish 
glue or isinglass is dissolved in water 
so that the latter covers the glue. When 
this is dissolved a quart of rectified spir- 
it of wine is added, and enough water is 
poured in to make up one-quarter the 
whole. The substance must be kept weE 
corked. 

II. — Take i quart of the best rum 
and \ ounce fish glue, which is dissolved 
in the former at a moderate degree of 
heat. Then add i quart distilled water, 
and filter through a piece of old linen. 
The glass is laid upon a perfectly level 
table and is covered with this substance 
to the thickness of } inch, using a clean 
brush. Seize the gold leaf with a 
pointed object and place it smoothly 
upon the prepared mass, and it will be 
attracted by the glass at once. After 5 
minutes hold the glass slightly slanting 
so that the superfluous mass can run off, 
and leave the plate in this position for 24 
hours, when it will be perfectly dry. Now 
trace the letters or the design on a piece 
of paper, and perforate the lines with a 
thick needle, mak'ng the holes tV i ncn 
apart. Then place the perforated paper 
upon the surface of the glass, and stamp 
the tracery on with powdered chalk. The 
paper pattern is then carefully removed, 
and the accurate design will remain u P° n 
the gold. The outlines are now filled 
out with an oily gold mass, mixed with 
a little chrome orange and diluted with 
boiled oil or turpentine. When all is 
dry the superfluous gold is washed on 



ADHESIVES 



19 



flrith water by means of a common rag. 
The back of the glass is tben painted 
with a suitable color. 

Attaching Enamel Letters to Glass. — 
To affix enamel letters to glass, first 
clean the surface of the glass perfectly, 
leaving no grease or sticky substance 
of any kind adhering to the surface. 
Then with a piece of soap sketch the out- 
lines of the design. Make the proper 
division of the guide lines, and stnkp off 
accurately the position each letter is to 
occupy. Then to the back of the letters 
apply a cement made as follows: White 
lead "ground in oil, 2 parts; dry white 
lead, 3 parts. Mix to a soft putty con- 
sistency with good copal varnish. 

With a small knife or spatula apply 
the cement to the back of the letters, 
observing especial care in getting the 
mixture well and uniformly laid around 
the inside edges of the letter. In at- 
taching the letters to the glass make sure 
to expel the air from beneath the char- 
acters, and to do this, work them up 
and down and sidewise. If the weather 
be at all warm, support the letters 
while drying by pressing tiny beads of 
sealing wax against the glass, close to 
the under side or bottom of the letters. 
With a putty knife, keenly sharpened 
on one edge, next remove all the sur- 

Elus cement. Give the letters a hard, 
rni pressure against the glass around 
all edges to securely guard against the 
disruptive attacks of moisture. 

The seepage of moisture beneath the 
surface of the letters is the main cause 
of their early detachment from the glass. 

The removal of the letters from the 
glass may be effected by applying tur- 
pentine to the top of the characters, 
allowing it to soak down and through 
the cement. Oxalic acid applied in the 
same way will usually slick the letters 
off in a trice. 

Cement for Porcelain Letters. — Slake 
15 parts of fresh quicklime in 20 parts of 
water. Melt 50 parts of caoutchouc and 
50 parts of linseed-oil varnish together, 
and bring the mixture to a boil. While 
boiling, pour the liquid on the slaked 
hme, little by little, under constant stir- 
ring. p asg the mixture, while still hot, 
through muslin, to remove any possible 
lumps, and let cool. It takes the cement 
a days to set completely, but when dry 
it makes a joint that will resist a great 
deal of strain. By thinning the mixture 
down with oil of turpentine, a brilliant, 
j powerfully adhesive varnish is obtained. 

Water - Glass Cements. — I. — Water 
I Bfass (sodium of potassium silicate), which 



is frequent y recommended for cement- 
ing glass does not, as is often asserted 
form a vitreous connection between the 
joined surfaces; and, in fact, some of 
the commercial varieties will not even 
dry, but merely form a thick paste, 
which has a strong affinity for moisture! 
Good 80° B - w ?. ter 8 la ss is, however, 
suitable for mending articles that are ex- 
posed to heat, and is best applied to sur- 
faces that have been gently warmed; 
when the pieces are put together they 
should be pressed warmly, to expel any 
superfluous cement, and then heated 
strongly. 

To repair cracked glasses or bottles 
through which water will leak, water 
glasses may be used, the application 
being effected in the following easy 
manner: The vessel is warmed to induce 
rarefaction of the internal air, after 
which the month is closed, either by a 
cork in the case of bottles, or by a pieco 
of parchment or bladder if a wide- 
mouthed vessel is under treatment. 

While still hot, the outside of the 
crack is covered with a little glass, and 
the vessel set aside to cool, whereupon 
the difference between the pressure of the 
external and internal air will force the 
cement into the fissure and close it 
completely. All that is then necessary 
is to take off the cover and leave the 
vessel to warm, for a few hours. Sub- 
sequently rinse it out with lime water, 
followed by clean water, and it will then 
hold any liquid, acids and alkaline fluids 
alone excepted. 

XI. — When water glass is brought into 
contact with calcium chloride, a cal- 
cium silicate is at once formed which 
is insoluble in water. It seems possible 
that this reaction may be used m bind- 
ing together masses of sand, etc. The 
process indicated has long been used ! m 
the preservation of stone which has be- 
come "weathered." The stone is first 
brushed with the water glass and alter- 
wards with a solution of calcium chlor- 
ide. The conditions here are o± course 

^C e aSum chloride must .not .be con- 
founded with the so-called " chloride of 
lime " which is a mixture of calcium ny- 
pochlorite and other bodies. 

To Fasten Paper Tickets to Glass -To 
attach paper tickets to glass, the : em- 
ployment of water glass is efficacious. 
Care should be taken to ^d thu ; prod- 
uct on the class and not on the papen 
ana then1o g a P p]y the paper dry which 
should be done immediately. When the 
solution is dry the paper cannot be a* 



ADHESIVES 



i A The silicate should be some- 
SfifdfloST It is spread on the glass 
S a rag or a small sponge. 



EWELERS' CEMErfTS. ( 
jewelers and goldsmiths 

however", be colorless. In this resp 
these are distinguished chiefly by tne 
so-called diamond cement and ^Je regu_ 
Jar iewelers cement. Diamond ce 
ment 1 much esteemed by jewelers for 
Srnenting precious stones and corals 
but may also be employed mth ad 
vantage for laying colored fluxes ot 
S on white gfass. The diamond 
cement is of such a nature as to be able 
to remain for some time in contact with 
water without becoming soft. It ad- 
heres best between glass or between pre- 
cious stones. It is composed as follows: 
Isinglass 8 parts, gum ammoniac 1 part, 
galbanum 1 part, spirit of wine 4 parts. 
Soak the isinglass in water with admix- 
ture of a little spirit of wine and add the 
solution of the gums in the remainder 
of the spirit of wine. Before use, heat 
the diamond cement a little so as to 
soften it. Jewelers' cement is used for 
similar purposes as is the diamond ce- 
ment, and is prepared from: Isinglass 
(dry) 10 parts, mastic varnish 5 parts. 
Dissolve the isinglass in very little water, 
adding same strong spirit of wine. The 
mastic varnish is prepared by pouring 
a . mixture of highly rectified spirit or 
wine and benzine over finely powdered 
mastic and dissolving it in the smallest 
possible quantity of liquid. The two 
solutions of isinglass and mastic are in- 
timately ground together in a porcelain 
dish. 

_ Armenian Cement.— The celebrated 
Armenian" cement, so called formerly 

used by Turkish and Oriental jewelers 

generally for setting precious stones 
facing diamonds," rubies, etc., is made 

as follows: 

Mastic gum ..... 10 parts 

Isinglass (fish glue) . 20 parts 

Gum ammoniac ... . 5 parts 

A coho absolute.... 60 parts 

Akohol, 50 per cent. . 35 parts 

Ti . VVater 100 parts 

lcohoT 1V d e ;« h r ma u sti V n the absolute 
icohol, dissolve, by the a d of gentle 
eat, on the water bath, the isinglass in 

iconoi. Wow dissolve the ammoniac-urn 
P the residue of the dilute akohol. Add 



the first solution to the second, ai x +l 
oughly by agitation and then a H<i ?, 1 
solution of gum ammoniac and stir 
in. Finally put on the water bath 
keeping at a moderate heat, evanm^ 
the whole down to 175 parts. 

Cement for Enameled Dials T\. 

following is a good cement for enamdc 
dials, plates, or other pieces: Grind int 
a fine powder <Zl parts of dammar rosi 
and °Z\ parts of copal, using color 
pieces if possible. Next add 2 pai 
of Venetian turpentine and enough spit 
of wine so that the whole forms a thu 
paste. To this grind 3 parts of the fine 
zinc white. The mass now has 
consistency of prepared oil paint, 
remove the yellow tinge of the ceme 
add a trifle of Berlin blue to the zi 
white. Finally, the whole is heated ui 
the spirit of wine is driven off and a in 
en mass remains, which is allowed toL. 
and is kept for use. Heat the parts to 
cemented. 

Watch-Lid Cement. — The hardest ce 
ment for fixing on watch lids is sheila 
If the lids are exceedingly thin the 
graving will always press through, 
fore cementing it on the inside of the 1 
in order not to injure the polish, it 
coated with chalk dissolved in alcohol, 
which is first allowed to dry. Next melt 
the shellac on the stick, heat the watch 
lid and put it on. After the engraving 
has been done, simply force the lid oft and 
remove the remaining shellac from the 
latter by light tapping. If this does not 
remove it completely lay the lid in alco- 
hol, leaving it therein until all the shel- 
lac has dissolved. All that remains to be 
done now is to wash out the watch lid. 

Jewelers' Glue Cement.— Dissolve on 
a water bath 50 parts of fish glue "J 
a little 95-per-cent alcohol adding 4 
parts, by weight, of gum ammoniac. 
On the other hand, dissolve 2 parts. W 
weight, of mastic in 10 parts, by wagM. 
of alcohol. Mix these two solutions anu 
preserve in a well-corked flask. _ 
use it suffices to soften it on the 
bath. 

Casein Cements. — 

I. — Borax 5 P 8 ? 

Water 95 P arts 

Casein, sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the borax in water andj 1 
corporate enough casein to p r0 
mass of the proper consistency. 
. II.— The casern is made feebly »* 
line by means of soda or potash ij 



then subjected for about 24 hours to a 
temperature of 140° F. Next follow 
the customary admixture, such as lime 
and water glass, and finally, to accom- 
plish a quicker resinification, substances 
containing tannin are added. For tan- 
nic admixtures to the partially disinte- 
grated casein, slight quantities — about 
1 per cent — of gallic acid, cutch, or 
quercilannic acid are employed. The 
feebly alkaline casein cement contain- 
ing tannic acid is used in the well-known 
manner for the gluing together of wood. 

For Metals. — Make a paste with 16 
ounces casein, 20 ounces slaked lime, and 
SO ounces of sand, in water. 

For Glass. — I. — Dissolve casein in a 
concentrated solution of borax. 

— Make a paste of casein and 
water glass. 

Pasteboard and Paper Cement.— I.— 

Let pure glue swell in cold water; pour 
and press off the excess; put on the 
water bath and melt. _ Paper or other 
material cemented with this is then 
immediately, before the cement dries, 
submitted to the action of formaldehyde 
and dried. The cement resists the action 
of water, even hot. 

II. — Melt together equal parts of 
good pitch and gutta percha. To 9 

{>arts of this mass add 3 parts of boiled 
inseed oil and £ part litharge. The 
heat is kept up until, with constant 
stirring, an intimate union of all the in- 
gredients has taken place. The mix- 
ture is diluted with a little benzine or 
oil of turpentine and applied while still 
■warm. The cement is waterproof. 

III. —The National Druggist says 
that experience with pasting or cement- 
ing parchment paper seems to show 
that about the best agent is casein 
cement, made by dissolving casein in 
a saturated aqueous solution of borax. 

IV. — The following is recommended 
or paper boxes: 

Chloral hydrate 5 parts 

Gelatin, white 8 parts 

Gurro arabic 2 parts 

Boiling water 30 parts 

Mix the chloral, gelatin, and gum 
arabic in a porcelain container, pour the 
boiling water over the mixture and let. 
stand for 1 day, giving it a vigorous 
stirring several times during the day. 
An cold weather this is apt to get hard 
and stiff, but this may be obviated by 
standing the container in warm water 
tor a few minutes. This paste adheres 
to any surface whatever. 



Waterproof Cements for Glass, Stone- 
ware, and Metal. -I._Make a paste of 
bXd U oil ammomac ' ir ™ filing* and 

II. — Mix together dry ; Whitine, 
pounds; plaster of Paris, 3 pounds 
sand, 3 pounds; litharge, 3 pounds 
rosin, 1 pound. Make to a paste wi 
copal varnish. 

III. — Make a paste of boiled oil 6 
pounds; copal, 6 pounds; litharge, 2 
pounds; white lead, 1 pound. 

IV. — Make a paste with boiled oil, 
3 pounds; brickdust 2 pounds; dry 
slaked lime, 1 pound. 

V. — Dissolve 93 ounces of alum an 
93 ounces of sugar of lead in water t 
concentration. Dissolve separately 15 
ounces of gum arabic in 25 gallons 
water, and then stir in 62$ pounds 
flour. Then heat to a uniform past 
with the metallic salts, but take care n 
to boil the mass. 

VI. — For Iron and Marble to Stand i 
Heat. — In S pounds of water dissolv 
first, 1 pound water glass and then 
pound of borax. With the solutio 
make 2 pounds of clay and 1 pound 
barytes, first mixed dry, to a paste. 

VII. — Glue to Resist Boiling Water. 
Dissolve separately in water 55 poun 
of glue and a mixture of 40 pounds 
bichromate and 5 pounds of alum, 
as wanted. 

VIII. (Chinese Glue). — Dissolve she 
lac in 10 times its weight of ammonia. 

IX. — Make a paste of 40 ounces 
dry slaked lime 10 ounces of alum, a 
50 ounces of white of egg. 

X.— Alcohol 1,000 parts 

Sandarac .... 60 parts 

Mastic 60 parts 

Turpentine oil 60 parts 

Dissolve the gurus in the alcohol an 
add the oil and stir in. Now prepar 
a solution of equal parts of glue an 
isinglass, by soalung 125 parts of each 
in cold water until it becomes saturated, 
pouring and pressing off the residue, i an 
melting on the water bath. This shoal 
produce a volume of glue nearly equal 
to that of the solution of gums Ihe 
latter should, in the meantime have 
been cautiously raised to the * boihn 
point on the water bath, and then mixe 
with the hot glue solution. 

It is said that articles united wit 
this substance will stond the strain 
cold water for an unlimited time an 
it takes hot water even a long time i 
affect it* 



XI .—Burgundy pitch 6 parts 

Gutta percba.- 1 part 

Pumice stone, in fine 

powder 3 parts 

Melt the gutta percha very carefully, 
odd the pumice stone, and lastly the 
pitch, and stir until homogeneous. 

Use while still hot. This cement will 
withstand water and dilute mineral 
acids. 

LEATHER AND RUBBER CEMENTS. 

I. — Use a melted mixture of gutta 
percha and genuine asphalt, applied 
hot. The hard-rubber goods must be 
kept pressed together until the cement 
has cooled. 

II, — A cement which is effective for 
cementing rubber to iron and which is 
especially valuable for fastening rub- 
ber bands to bandsaw wheels is made 
as follows: Powdered shellac, 1 part; 
strong water of ammonia, 10 parts. Put 
the shellac in the ammonia water and 
set it away in a tightly closed jar for 
3 or 4 weeks, By that time the mixture 
will become a perfectly liquid transpar- 
ent mass and is then ready for use. 
When applied to rubber the ammonia 
softens it, but it quickly evaporates, leav- 
ing the rubber in the same condition as 
before. The shellac clings to the iron 
and thus forms a firm bond between the 
iron and the rubber. 

III. — Gutta percha, white. 1 drachm 
Carbon disulphide . . 1 ounce 

Dissolve, filter, and add: 

India rubber 15 grains 

Dissolve. 

Cement for Metal on Hard Rubber.— 

I. — Soak good Cologne glue and boil down 
so as to give it the consistency of joiners' 
glue, and add. with constant stirring, 
enough sifted wood ashes until a homo- 
geneous, moderately thick mass results. 
Use warm and fit the pieces well together 
while drying. 

How to Unite Rubbei and Leather. — 

II. — Roughen both suriaces, the leather 
and the rubber, with a sharp glass edge; 
apply to both a diluted solution of gutta 
percha in carbon bisulphide, and let this 
solution soak into the material. Then 
press upon each surface a skin of gutta 

Pe ii a M. of an inch in thinness between 
rolls. The two surfaces are now united 
in a press, which should be warm but not 
aot. lhis method should answer in all 
cases in which it is applicable. The 
other prescription covers eases in which 
a press cannot be used. Cut 30 parts of 
rubber into small pieces, and dissolve 



it in 140 parts of carbon bisulphide, the 
vessel being placed on a water bath rrf 
30° C. (86° P.). Further, melt 10 par?* 
of rubber with 15 of colophony, and add 
35 parts of oil of turpentine. When the 
rubber has been completely dissolved 
the two liquids may be mixed. The 
resulting cement must be kept well 
corked. 

To Fasten Rubber to Wood,— 

Make a cement by macerating virgin 
gum rubber, or as pure rubber as can be 
had, cut in small pieces, in just enough 
naphtha or gasoline to cover it. Let it 
stand in a very tightly corked or sealed 
jar for 14 days, or a sufficient time to 
become dissolved, shaking the mixture 
daily. 

II. — Dissolve pulverized gum shellae, 
1 ounce, in 9 A ounces of strong ammonia. 
This of course must be kept tightly 
corked. It will not be as elastic as the 
first preparation. 

III. — Fuse together shellac and gutta 
percha in equal weights. 

IV. — India rubber. ..... . Bounces 

Gutta percha 4 ounces 

Isinglass 2 ounces 

Bisulphide of carbon 32 ounces 

V. — India rubber. 5 ounces 

Gum mastic 1 ounce 

Chloroform 3 ounces 

VI. — Gutta percha 16 ounces 

India rubber 4 ounces 

Pitch 4 ounces 

Shellac 1 ounce 

Linseed oil 1 ounce 

Amalgamate by heat. 

VII. — Mix 1 ounce of oi! of turpentine 
with 10 ounces of bisulphide of carbon in 
which as much gutLa percha as possible 
has been dissolved. 

VIII. — Amalgamate by heat: 

Gutta percha 100 ounces 

Venice turpentine. 80 ounces 

Shellac 8 ounces 

India rubber 2 ounces 

Liquid storax 10 ounces 

IX. — Amalgamate by heat: 

India rubber 100 ounces 

Rosin 15 ounces 

Shellac 10 ounces 

Then dissolve in bisuJohide of carbon. 

X.— Make the following solutionis sep- 
arately and mix: 

(a) India rubber 5 ounces 

Chloroform 140 ounces 

(6) India rubber 5 ounces 

Rosin 2 ounces 

Venice turpentine. 1 ounce 
Oil of turpentine. . 20 ounce* 



ADHESIVES 



Cement for Patching Rubber Boots 
and Shoes. — 

I, — India rubber, finely- 
chopped 100 parts 

Rosin 15 parts 

Shellac 10 parts 

Carbon disulphide, 
q. s, to dissolve. 
This will not only unite leather to 
leather, india rubber, etc., but will unite 
rubber to almost any substance. 

H. — Caoutchouc, finely cut 4 parts 
India rubber, finely 

cut 1 part 

Carbon disulphide... 32 parts 

Dissolve the caoutchouc in the carbon 
disulphide, add the rubber, let macer- 
ate a few days, then mash with a palette 
knife to a smooth paste. The vessel in 
which the solution is made in both 
instances above must be kept tightly 
closed, and should have frequent agita- 
tions. 

III.^Take 100 parts ofcrude rubber 
or caoutchouc, cut it up in small bits, 
and dissolve it in sufficient carbon bisul- 
phide, add to it 15 parts of rosin and 
10 parts of gum lac. The user must 
not overlook the great inflammability and 
exceedingly volatile nature of the carbon 
bisulphide. 

Tire Cements. — 

I. — India rubber 15 grams 

Chloroform 2 ounces 

Mastic $ ounce 

Mix the india rubber and chloroform 
;ogether, and when dissolved, the mastic 
I added in powder. It is then allowed 
o stand a week or two before using. 

II. — The following is recommended as 
r ery good for cementing pneumatic tires to 
iicyde wheels: 

Shellac 1 ounce 

Gutta percha 1 ounce 

Sulphur 45 grains 

Red lead 45 grains 

I , ^felt together the shellac and gutta per. 
*ha, then add, with constant stirring, the 
sinphur and red lead. Use while hot. 
— Raw gutta percha . . 1 6 ounces 
Carbon bisulphide. 1% ounces 
Eau de Cologne. ... 2§ ounces 
This cement is the subject of an Eng. 
ash patent and is recommended for 
patching cycle and motor tires, insulat- 
ing electric wires, etc. 
J^C~ A good thick shellac varnish with 
wnich a small amount of castor oil has 
Been mixed will be found a very excellent 
icyde rim cement. The formula rec- 
tomunded by Ed el is as follows: 



Shellac * . 

A^oho. \*$* 

Mix and dissolve, then add; 

Castor oil 4 ' ounce 

The castor oil prevents the cem 
from becoming hard and brittle 

A cement used to fasten bicycle tir 
may be made by melting together at 
gentle heat equal parts of gutta perch 
and asphalt. Apply hot. Sometimes 
small quantity each of sulphur and r 
lead is added (about 1 part of each to % 
parts of cement). 

Cements for Leather. — 

I. — Gutta percha 20 parts 

Syrian asphalt, pow- 
dered 20 parts 

Carbon disulphide.. 50 parts 
Oil of turpentine ... 10 parts 
_ The gutta percha, shredded fine, ■ .„ 
dissolved in the carbon disulphide and 
turpentine oil. To the solution add the 
asphalt and set away for several days, 
or until the asphalt is dissolved. The 
cement should have the consistency of 
honey. If the preparation is thinner 
than this let it stand, open, for a few 
days. Articles to be patched should 
first De washed with benzine. 

II. — Glue 1 ounce 

•Starch paste ......... 2 ounces 

Turpentine 1 drachm 

Water, a sufficient quantity. 
Dissolve the glue in sufficient wa' 
with heat; mix the starch paste wi 
water; add the turpentine, and fina 
mix with the glue while hot. 

III. — Soak for one day 1 pound of co 
mon glue in enough water to cover, a 
1 pound of isinglass in ale dropping 
Then mix together and heat gently u 
til boiling. At this point add a lit 

Eure tannin and keep boiling for a 
our. If the glue and isinglass whe 
mixed arc too thick, add water. T 
cement should be used warm and t 
jointed leather pressed tightly togeth 
for 12 hours. , 

IV. — A waterproof cement for leatJi 
caoutchouc, or balata, is prepared b 
dissolving gutta percha, caoutcnou 
benzoin, gum lac, mastic, etc., in sons 
convenient solvent like carbon disuj 
phide, chloroform, ether, _ or alcohol. 
The best solvent, however, m the case o 
gutta percha, is carbon disulphide, an 
tther for mastic. The most favoraW 
proportions are as follows : Gutta percha 
200 to 300 parts to 100 parts of the sol 
vent, and 75 to 85 parts »f mastic to 10 
parts of ether. From 5 to 8 parts 
the former solution are mixed wito 



ADHESIVES 



mrt of the latter, and the mixture is 
K boiled on the water. bath, or m a 
vessel fitted with a water jac ket 

V —Make a solution oi 20U to ^uu 
parte of caoutchouc.gutta percha india 
rubber, benzoin, or similar gum, in 1,000 
parts of carbon disulphide chlorofornn 
ether, or alcohol, and of this add 5 to 8 
parts to a solution of mastic (75 to 
Parts) in ether 100 parts, of equal volume 
and boil together. Use hot water as the 
boiling agent, or boil very cautiously on 
the water bath. 

VI —Forty parts of aluminum ace- 
tate, 10° B., 10 parts of glue, 10 parts 
of rye flour. These materials are either 
to be simultaneously mixed and boiled, 
or else the glue is to be dissolved in the 
aluminum acetate, and the flour stirred 
into the solution. This is an excellent 
cement for leather, and is used in so- 
called art work with leather, and with 
leather articles which are made of sev- 
eral pieces. It is to be applied warm. 

Rubber Cement for Cloth.— The fol- 
lowing formulas have been recommended: 

I. — Caoutchouc, 5 parts; chloroform, 
3 parts. Dissolve and add gum mastic 
(powder) 1 part. 

II. — Griitta percha, IS parts; india rub- 
ber, 4 . parts; pitch, 2 parts; shellac, 1 
part; linseed oil, 2 parts. Reduce the 
solids to small pieces, melt together with 
the oil and mix well. 

III. — The following cement for mend- 
ing .rubber shoes and tires will answer 
similar purposes : 

Caoutchouc in shavings . , 10) p arts 

Rosin 4 I by 

Gum turpentine 40 j w eight. 

Oil turpentine, enough. 
Melt together first the caoutchouc and 
rosin, then add the gum turpentine, and 
when all is liquefied, add enough of oil 
of turpentine to preserve it liquid A 
second solution is prepared by dissolv- 
ing together : 

Caoutchouc io ) Parts 

Chloroform... oen r by 

„ , * au ) weight. 

W-.k" U ^ th f ^ tw ? sohl ^ons are mixed. 

over w'\v, e ^ h ° Ie ln the rubber snoe 
over w th the cement, then a p i ec e of 
hnen d ippe d in it is placed over it as 
cedent tl™ ^T 5 t0 ^ -le *th 
quTrS! aPpll6d aS thickl r as re - 

CE ^NTS FOR METALS AJTD FOR AT- 

t&alI^ 10118 ^stances 

Cements for Iron T TV i 

*ood cement for i^n ou^Jn, make t 



thick paste, with water, of Po , 
iron, 60 parts; sal ammoniac 2 e( 5 
and sulphur flowers, 1 part. TTsa?.^ 
fresh. 86 

II. —Sulphur flowers, 6 p arts . , 
white lead 6 parts, and powderprl k ^ 
1 part. Mix by sifting and keen » ' 
dry powder in a closed tin box. To % 
make into a thin paste with strong US ?* 
phuric acid and press together im^j- 
ately. This cement wilf harder^; 
days. s 

^.-gapliitc 50 pounds 

Whiting 15 pounds 

Litharge 15 pounds 

Make to a paste with a boiled oil. 

IV. — Make a paste of white lead and 
asbestos. 

V. — Make a paste of litharge and glye. 
erine. Red lead may be added. This 
also does for stone. 

VI. — Make a paste of boiled oil of 
equal parts of white lead, pipe clay, and 
black oxide of manganese. 

VII. — Make iron filings to a paste with 
water glass. 

VIII. — Sal ammoniac. ... 4 ounces 

Sulphur 2 ounces 

Iron filings 32 ounces 

Make as much as is to be used at once 
to a paste with a little water. This re- 
mark applies to both the following dry 

recipes: 

IX. — Iron filings 160 ounces 

Lime 80 ounces 

Red lead 16 ounces 

Alum 8 ounces 

Sal ammoniac 2 ounces 

X. — Clay 10 ounces 

Iron filings 4 ounces 

Salt 1 ounce 

Borax 1 ounce 

Black oxide of 

manganese ... 2 ounces 

XI.— Mix: 

Iron filings 180 ounces 

Lime 45 ounces 

Salt 8 ounces 

XII.— Mix: 

Iron filings 140 ounces 

Hydraulic lime . . 20 ounces 

Sand 25 ounces 

Sal ammoniac... S ounces 
Either of these last two m ixt H re . s „ ar 
made into a paste with strong vines 
just before use. , „: 0 c 

XIII. — Mix equal weights of » 
oxide and black oxide of mang^ 
into a paste with water glass. 

XIV. — Copal varnish, 15 parts, % 
drated lime, 10 parts; glue de *f r ' rtW 
sinews), 5 parts; fat drying oil, *> V 



powdered turpentine, 3 parts; essence of 
turpentine, 2 parts. Dissolve the glue 
de nerfs oil the water bath, add all the 
other substances, and triturate inti- 
mately- 

XV, — Copal varnish, 15 parts; pow- 
dered turpentine, 3 parts; essence of tur- 
pentine, 2 parts; powdered fish glue, 3 
parts; iron filings, 3 parts; ocher, 10 
parts. 

XVI. — To make a cement for cast iron, 
take 16 ounces cast-iron borings; 2 ounces 
sal ammoniac, and 1 ounce sulphur. Mix 
well and keep dry. When ready to use 
take 1 part of this powder to 20 parts of 
cast-iron borings and mix thoroughly into 
a stiff paste, adding a little water, 

XVII. — Litharge 2 parts 

Boiled linseed oil 2 parts 

White lead 1 part 

Copal 1 part 

Heat together until of a uniform con- 
sistence and apply warm. 

XVIII. — A cement for iron which is 
said to he perfectly waterproof and fire- 
proof is made by working up a mixture 
of equal weights of red lead and litharge 
with glycerine till the mass is perfectly 
homogeneous and has the consistency 
of a glazier's putty. This cement is 
said to answer well, even for very large 
irun vessels, and to be unsurpassable for 
stopping up cracks in large iron pans of 
steam pipes. 

Cement for Metal, Glass, and Porce- 
lain. — A soft alloy is prepared by mixing 
from 30 to 36 parts of copper precipi- 
tated in the form of a fine brown powder, 
Wlta sulphuric acid of a specific gravity 
+ j - U1 a cast - iron or porcelain mor- 
tar and incorporating by stirring with 75 
Parts of mercury, the acid being after- 
wards removed by washing with water, 
in from 10 to 14 hours the amalgam be- 
K% ha . rder than tin - but when heated to 
W ' Jt can be kneaded like wax. In 
wis condition it is applied to the surface 
to be cemented, and will fix them firmly 
together on cooling. 

Dissolve 1 drachm of gum mastic in 3 
llt? hms °* s Pi"ts of wine. In a sep- 
«e vessel containing water soak 3 
Jof j S , ls . ln glass. When th orouffnly 
S e take !t out of the ^ter and put 
a 12° drachms °f spirits of wine. Take 
|«ece ot gum ammoniacum the size of 
liHlo 86 pea and Srind it up finely with a 
it hL s P'. nts of wine and isinglass until 
t JS£ SSO ved " Then ™ix ^e whole 
foK er Wlth sufficient heat. It will be 
Vm!»i m ° at , con venient to place the 
"esse! on a hot- water bath. Keep this 



cement m a bottle closely stoppered 
when it is to be used, place it in v 
water until dissolved. " h 

Cements for Fastening Porcelain t 
Metal, I. Mix equal parts of alcoh 
(95 per cent) and water, and make 

f^ZZ ? nC t P ulveri ^d chalk an 
2*0 parts of starch. 

qa? *~¥ iX fi ^ ly P° wd cred burned lim 
JUU parts, with powdered starch %l 
parts, and moisten the mixture with' 
compound of equal parts of water an 
alcohol of 95 per cent until a past 
results. r 

III-— Cement or plaster can be us 
it the surfaces are sufficiently larg 
cement is the better article when f 
object may be exposed to moisture o 
subjected to much pressure. A proce 
which can be recommended consists i 
mingling equal weights of chalk, brie 
dust, clay, and Romain cement. The 
materials, pulverized and sifted, are i 
eorporated with linseed oil in the pr 
portion of half a kilo of oil to 3 kilos 
the mingled powder. The Romain 
Romanic cement is so designated fro 
the district in France where the cal 
reous stone from which it is prepared 
found in considerable quantity. * 
though its adhesive qualities are unquf 
tioned, there are undoubtedly America 
cements equally as good. 

IV. — Acetate of lead, 46 \ parts b. 
weight; alum, 46 \ parts by weigh 
gum arabic, 76 parts by weight; fiou 
500 parts by weight; water, 2,000 par 
by weight. " Dissolve the acetate of lea 
and the alum in a little water; on th 
other hand dissolve the gum arabic i 
water by pouring, for instance, the | 
liters of boiling water on the gum arabi 
reduced to powder. When the gum ha 
dissolved, add the flower, put all on th 
fire, and stir well with a piece of wood; 
then add the solution of acetate of lead 
and the alum; agitate well so as to pre- 
vent any lumps from forming; retire fro 
the fire before allowing to bod. inij 
glue is used cold, does not peel off, and 
is excellent to make wood, glass, card 
board, etc, adhere to metals. 

Cement for Leather and Iron.— To 
face a cast-iron pulley with leather apply 
acetic acid to the face of the pulley with 
a brush, which will roughen it by rusting- 
and then when dry apply a cement made 
of 1 pound of fish glue and 4 pound of 
common glue, melted m a mixture of 
alcohol and water. The f^er should 
then be placed on the pulley and dried 
under pressure. 



26 



ADHESIVES 



to- 



A^r C^ments.-I.-To polder 
C*5. fl?. SfS^to'ta "united and 



Bligh tL h t tem wit3T»"soiulion of caustic 
SSMS^tt. two piece, together 

quickly 



Tf -Dissolve m a closed bottle 75 
.arts of cut up caoutchouc in 60 parts of 
Chloroform, ^dd IS parts of mastic and 
let the mixture stand in the cold until all 
has dissolved. . . 

Ill —Moisten the pieces to be joined 
with caustic potash and press them to- 
gether when warm. The union is so 
perfect that no trace of the juncture is 
visible. A concentrated alcoholic solu- 
tion of the rosin over the amber, soluble 
in alcohol, is also employed for this pur- 
pose. Another medium is a solution 
of hard and very Gnely powdered copal 
ia pure sulphuric ether. Coat both 
fractures, previously well cleaned, with 
this solution and endeavor to combine 
them intimately by tying or pressing. 

IV.— In 30 parts by weight of copal 
dissolve 30 parts by weight of alumina 
by means of a water bath. Bathe the 
surface to be cemented with this gelat- 
5US liquid, but very slightly. Unite 
i fractures and press them together 
rmly until the mixture is dry. 

Acid-Proof Cements for Stoneware 
d Glass. — I, — Mix with the aid of heat 
qua! weights of pitch, rosin, and plaster 
f Paris. 

II. — Mix silicate of soda to a paste 
ith ground glass. 

III. — Mix boiled oil to a paste with 
china clay. 

IV. — Mix coal tar to a paste with 
pipe clay. 

V. — Mix boiled oil to a paste with 
quicklime. 

VI. — Mix with the aid of heat: Sul- 
phur, 100 pounds; tallow, g pounds; 
rosin, 2 pounds. Thicken with ground 
glass, 

VII. — Mix with the aid of heat: 
Kosin 2 pounds; sulphur, 2 pounds: 
brickdust, 4 pounds. 

VI i L- 7 Mix witt the aid of heat 2 
pounds of india rubber and 4 pounds of 
boiled oil. Thicken with 12 pounds of 
pipe clay. 

IX.— Fuse 100 pounds of india rub- 
ber with 7 pounds of tallow. Then 

fiS? L P „ aste with dr y slaked lime and 
finally add 20 pounds of red lead, 

!i. P°^ nd Ved oeher, g pounds; boiled 
Oil, 2 pounds; plaster of Paris, 4 pounds! 



Acid-Proof Cement for Wood M 6ta , 
etc. — ' Wl3 j 

I. — Powdered asbestos ... 2 part 

Ground baryta \ j> art 

Sodium water-glass so- 

lution 2 parts 

Mis. 

II.— To withstand hot nitric acid th 
following is used: lQe 

Sodium water-glass so- 

„ ^tion a patts 

Sand i p aTt 

Asbestos i part 

Mix, 

HI- — Asbestos _ 2 parts 

" Sulphate of barium ..." 3 parts 
Silicate of sodium .... 2 parts 
By mixing these ingredients a cement 
strong enough to resist the strongest 
nitric acid will be obtained. 

IV. — If hot acids are dealt with, the 
following mixture will be found to possess 
still more resistant powers: 
Silicate of sodium (50° 

Baume) 2 parts 

Fine sand 1 part 

Asbestos 1 part 

Both these cements take a few hours 
to set. If the cement is wanted to set 
at once, use silicate of potassium, instead 
of silicate of sodium. This mixture will 
be instantly effective and possesses the 
same power of resistance as the other. 

Directions for Repairing Broken Glass, 
Porcelain, Bric-i-Brac — Broken glass, 
china, bric-a-brac, and_ picture frames, 
not to name casts, require each a differ- 
ent cement — in fact, several different 
cements. Glass may be beautifully 
mended to look at, but seldom so as to 
be safely used. For clear glass the best 
cement is isinglass dissolved in gin. ru 
2 ounces of isinglass in a clean, wide- 
mouthed bottle, add half a pint ot gin, 
and set in the sun until dissolved, ohuso 
well every day, and before using stram 
through double lawn, squeezing very 
gently. 

Spread a white cloth over the mend- 
ing table and supply it with P le , n *J ds 
clean linen rags, strong rubber d rf 
and narrow white tape, also a DB ^ flS [, 
tepid water and a clean soft towel. ^ 
the broken glass very clean, espe ^ 
along the break, but take care 
chin it further. Wet both broken ^ 
well with the glue, using a came ^ 
pencil. Fit the break to a mce V' cr0 sS' 
slip on rubber bands length- » na j f the y 
wise, every way they will hold. pJBe d 
will not hold tine as upon a sic 



ADHESIVES 



thing, a vase or jug or scent bottle, 
string half a dozen bands of the same 
size and strength upon a bit of tape, and 
tie the tape about neck or base before 
beginning the gluing. After the parts 
are joined slip another tape through the 
same bands and ue it above the fracture; 
thus with all their strength the bands 
pull the break together. The bands can 
be used thus on casts of china— in fact, 
to hold anything mendable. In glass 
mending the greater the pressure the 
better — if only it stops short of the break- 
ing point. Properly made the isinglass 
cement is as clear as water. When the 
pieces fit true one on the other the break 
should be hardly visible, if the pressure 
has been great enough to force out the 
tiny bubbles, which otherwise refract 
the light and make the line of cleavage 
distressingly apparent. Mended glass 
may be used to hold dry things — as rose 
leaves, sachets, violet powder, even can- 
dies and fruits. But it will not bear 
to have any sort of liquid left standing 
in it, nor to be washed beyond a quick 
rinsing in tepid water. In wiping al ways 
use a very soft towel, and pat the vessel 
dry with due regard to its infirmities. 
_ Mend a lamp loose in the collar with 
sifted plaster of Paris mixed to a very 
soft paste with beaten white of egg. 
Have everything ready before wetting 
up the plaster, and work quickly so it. 
may set in place. With several lamps to 
mend wet enough plaster for one at a 
time. It takes less than 5 minutes to 
set, and is utterly worthless if one tries 
working it over. Metal work apart 
from the glass needs the soldering iron. 
l>ust the break well with powdered rosin, 
tie the parts firmly together, lay the stick 
Of solder above the break, and fetch the 
iron down on it lightly but firmly. When 
the solder cools, remove the melted rosin 
with a cloth dipped in alcohol. 

bince breakables have so unhappy a 
knack of fracturing themselves in such 
iasJiion they cannot possibly stand up- 
right, one needs a sand box. It is only 
a box of handy size with 8 inches of 
clean, coarse sand in the bottom. Along 
^itn it there should be some small leaden 
weights, with rings cast in them, run- 
mng from an ounce to a quarter pound. 
J- wo oi each weight are needed. In use, 
tapes are tied to the rings, and the pair of 
weights swung outside the edges of the 
oox so as to press in place the upper 
Part of a broken thing to which the tapes 
have been fastened. 

Set broken platters on edge in the sand 

KuTi. th tl i. e break U P- The sand will 
uoid them firm, and the broken bit can 




p'fate^di^rs.^ ^ 
monly, requires weigh°tin g *&? 
fine pieces where an mvilihU =L - y 
wanted should be heldftSS ^ ^^^1: 
set, then have the paxr of heavTest weights 
accurately balanced across the broken 
piece. The weights are also very useful 
to prop and stay topheavy articles and 
balance them so they shall not get out 
of kilter A cup broken, as is s feom 
mon with cups, can have the tape passed 
around xt crossing inside the* handle 
then be set firmly in the sand, face down! 
and be held by the hanging weights 
pulling one against the other 
f The most dependable cement for china 
is pure white lead, ground in linseed oil 
so thick it will barely spread smoothly 
with a knife. Given time enough to- 
harden (some 3 months), it makes a seam 
practically indestructible. The objec- 
tion to it is that it always shows in a 
staring white line. A better cerrent for 
fine china is white of egg and plaster. Sif i 
the plaster three times and tie a generous 
pinch of it loosely in mosquito netting. 
Then beat the egg until it will stick to 
the plaster. Have the broken egg very 
clean, cover both with the beaten «gg, 
dust well with the plaster, fit together at 
once, tie, using rubber bands if possible, 
wrap loosely in very soft tissue paper, 
and bury head and ears in the sand box, 
taking care that the break lies so that 
the sand will hold it together. Leave in 
the box £4 hours. After a week the su- 
perfluous plaster may be gently scraped 
away. 

General Formulas for Cements for 
Repairing Porcelain, Glassware, Crock- 
ery, Plaster, and Meerschaum. — I.— 
An excellent cement for joining broken 
crockery and similar small articles can 
be made by melting 4 or 5 parts of rosin 
(or, better still, gum mastic) with 1 part 
of beeswax in an iron spoon or similar 
vessel. Apply while hot. It will not 
Stand great neat. 

II, — An excellent cement for porcelain 
and stoneware is obtained by mixing 20 
parts of fish glue with an equal weight 
of crystallizable acetic acid and evapo- 
rate the mixture carefully to a syrupy 
consistency so that it forms a gelatinous 
mass on cooling. For use tht cement 
thus obtained is made liquid a^ain by 
heating and applied to the fracture with 
a brush. The pieces should now be 
pressed firmly together, by winding a 
twine tightly around them, until trie 
cement' has hardened. 

T IT . For luting vessels made of glass, 



ADHESIVES 



porcelain, etc wMrf .are Jo J- Wto 

£. r (permanent white, sand, etc. J is rec 
dcr tp , j To heerin with, asbestos 
nowder is made into a pulp with tnree 

P - the quantity (weight) of a 

lass (or 



fluid, being careful not to let it camp 
a boil, as this injures its adhesive pror? 
erties (the same may be said in rcear l 
to glues and gelatins of all kinds). %\ 



or four times 
solution of soda_ w^er 
B ). The same is exceedingly fat ana 
clastic, but is not very well suited for 
working, as it shrinks too much and 
Sk" when drying. By an addition of 
fin* writing sand of the same weight 
as "the asbestos used, the mass can be 
made less fat, so as to obviate shrinking, 
without detracting from the plasticity. 
Small vessels were molded from it and 
dried in the air, to be tested afterwards. 
Put in water, the hardened mass becomes 
soft again and falls apart. Brought into 
contact, however, with very strong min- 
eral acids, it becomes even firmer and 
withstands the liquid perfectly. Con- 
centrated nitric acid was kept in such 
small vessels without the mass being 
visibly attacked or anything penetrating 
it. The action of the acid manifestly 
has the effect that silicic acid is set free 
from the water glass in excess, which 
c1q,;s up the pores < entirely and con- 
tributes to the lutation Later on, the 
mas? cannot be dissolved by pure water 
any more. The mass is also highly fire- 
prooi One of the molded bodies can 
be kept glowing in a Bunsen gas flame 
for about half a day after treatment with 
acid, without slagging in the least. For 
many purposes it ought to be welcome 
to have such a mass at hand. It cannot 
be kept ready for use, however, as it 
hardens a few hours after being pre- 
pared; if potash water glass is used, in- 
stead of the soda composition, this in- 
duration takes place still more quickly. 

IV.— Cement foi Glass, Porcelain, etc. 
Isinglass (fish gluet .. 50 parts 
Gum ammoniac. . , . 

Gum mastic 

Alcohol, 95 per cent . 
Water, q. s. 

Soak the isinglass in cold water over 
night, or until it has become swollen and 
soft throughout. In the morning throw 
ott any superfluous fluid and throw the 
isinglass on a clean towel or other coarse 
cloth and hang it up in such a way that 
any free residual water will drain awav 
Upon doing this thoroughly depends, fn 
a great measure, the strength of the 
SE? m S.i™^ the § elatin has become 

nr n^ ghIy P Ut & a flask 

hlth « i C u nt ; mer ' P race k in the ™tcr 
bath and heat carefully until it becomes 



4 parts 
1 parts 
10 parts 



solve the gums in the alcohol arid add 
the solution to the gelatin after remov 
ing the same from the water bath, and 
letting it cool down to about ieb° R 
Stir well together or mix by agitation ' 
The following precautions must* be 
observed: 1. Both surfaces to be joined 
must be absolutely clean, free from dust 
dirt, grease, etc. _ 2. Where the cement 
is one that requires the application of 
heat before use, the objects to be united 
should also be heated to a point at least 
as high as the melting point of the cement. 
Otherwise, the cement on application is 
chilled and consequently fails to make a 
lasting joint. 3. The thinner the layer 
of cement the stronger the joint; avoid, 
therefore, using too much of the binding 
material. Cover both surfaces to be 
united, coapt them exactly, and press 
together as closely as possible. In this 
manner the thinnest possible layer is 
secured. 4. Bind the parts securely to- 
gether, and let remain without loosening 
or attempting to use the article for 2 or 
3 days or longer. A liquid cement ac- 
quires its full strength only after evapor- 
ation of the fluids used as solvents, and 
this can occur only from the infinitesimal 
line of exposed surface. 

V. — Liquid Porcelain Cement. — Fish 
glue, 20 parts; glass acetic acid, 20 parts; 
heat together until the mass gelatinizes 
on cooling. 

VI. — Take 1 ounce of Russian ism- 
glass, cut in small pieces, and bruise 
well; then add 6 ounces of warm water, 
and leave it in a warm place for from 
24 to 48 hours. Evaporate the re- 
sulting solution to about 3 ounces. 
Next dissolve \ ounce of mastic in « 
ounces of alcohol, and add the mastic 
solution to the isinglass in small quan- 
tities at a time, continuing the heat anu 
stirring well. While still hot strain tne 
liquid through muslin. , , i 

\IL— For optical glasses, Canada fc*" 
sam is emploved, the two pieces being nn« 
ly pressed together. After a while, t»v 
cially by humidity, punctures will" j 
and the glass is separated by a j. ^ eS 
varying reflexes, while in certain en ^ 
the heat will melt the balsam- , 
other glass articles which r ^ ll i r L ver s, 
simple treatment, such as knobs ol ^ 
plates, etc., silicate of potash u> c 

VIII.— Glass Cement.— Dissolve ' n Jj fl 
parts of acetic acid of 96 per cem, 



ADHESIVES 



parts of gelatin by the use of heat, and 
add ammonium bichromate, 5 parts. 
This glue must be kept away from the 
light 

IX.— White glue. . 10 parts 

Potassium bichromate £ parts 

Water 100 parts 

The glue is dissolved in a portion of 
the water by the aid of heat, the bichro- 
mate in the remainder, and the liquids 
mixed, the mixing being done in a feebly 
lighted place, and the mixture is then 
kept in the dark. It is applied in feeble 
light, being reliquefied by gentle heat, 
and the glass, the fractured pieces being 
tightly clamped together, is then exposed 
to a strong light for some time. By this 
exposure the cement becomes insoluble. 
This is waterproof cement for glass. 

X. — Diamond Glass Cement. — Dis- 
solve 100 parts of isinglass in 150 parts 
of 90 per cent alcohol and add, with con- 
stant stirring, 200 parts of powdered 
rosin. This cement must be preserved 
in absolutely tight bottles, as it solidifies 
very quickly. 

XI — To unite objects of crystal dis- 
solve 8 parts of caoutchouc and 100 parts 
of gum mastic in 600 parts of chloro- 
form. Set aside, hermetically closed, 
for 8 days; then apply with a brush, 
cold. 

XII. — To make a transparent cement 
for glass, digest together for a week in 
the cold 1 ounce of india rubber, 67 
ounces of chloroform, and 40 ounces of 
mastic. 

XIII. — A mixture of traumaticin, a 
solution of caoutchouc in chloroform, 
and a concentrated solution of water 
glass make a capital cement for unit- 
ing artmlcs of glass. Not only is the 
]omt very strong, but it is transparent. 
™her changes of temperature nor 

YTv e affect the cement - 
_ . . . A. transparent cement for por- 
celain is prepared by dissolving 75 parts 
Of mdia rubb— — - » " 

a bottle 

for 



s 

er, cut into small jieces, 
containing 60 parts chloro- 



LS +1 u ? add 15 P arts Sreen mastic. 
inor A ? , e staud in the cold until the 
served C become thoroughly dis- 

tio^ T,f~K S ° me ^ reparations resist the ac- 
« 1 ne at and moisture a short time, 

folL^ nerally yield ver y quickly. The 

W."V einent for § lass has proven 
*° st distant to liquids and heat: 



Silver litharge .... 1,000 parts 

? Wf. ad 50 Parts 

"oiled lmseed oil.. Mparts 
(-opal varnish 



50 parts 

3 

1 part 



anc 
ner 



Mix the lead and litharge thorough 
the oil and copal in t L sa ° m °e XJ. 



and 



preserve 



Whe 



net led for use," mix ir??^ 17 ' 
inc cated of tt p P G wSe^^ 
pa, s of the hquid) and kn?ad well to 

£ ? A l\ i PP i y t0 the ed £ e * of the e as 
bn d the broken parts together, and , 
sti nd for from M to 48 hours. 

>L VI.-— To reunite plaster articles di 
so ve small pieces of celluloid in ethe 

a quarter of an hour decant, and us, 
th ; pasty deposit which remains fo 
si taring the edges of the articles, 
dues rapidly and is insoluble in water 

XVII. — To Mend Wedgwood Mortar 
--It is easy enough to mend mortars 
that they may be used for making em. 
sions and other light work which do 
not tax their strength too much. B 
a mended mortar will hardly be able . 
stand the force required for powderim 
hard substances. A good cement f 
mending mortars is the following: 

a. — Glass flour elutriated. 10 parts 

Fluorspar, powdered 

_ and elutriated 20 parts 

Silicate of soda 60 parts 

Both glass and fluorspar must be h 
the finest possible condition, which 
best done by shaking each in fine po 
der, _ with water allowing the coars 
particles to deposit, and the^i to pour o 
the remainder, which hold •■ the fine: 
particles in suspension. T^e mixturi 
must be made very rapidly by quic 
stirring, and when thoroughly mixe 
must be at once applied. This is sai 
to yield an excellent cement. 

b. — Freshly burnt plaster 

of Paris 5 parts 

Freshly burnt lime 1 part 

White of egg, sufficient. 

Reduce the first two ingredients to 
very fine powder and mix them well; 
moisten the two surfaces to be united wit. 
a small quantity of white of egg to mak 
them adhesive; then mix the powder ver 
rapidly with the white of egg and appl 
the mixture to the broken surfaces. I 
they are large, two persons should do tnis, 
each applying the cement to one portion. 
The pieces are then firmly pressed to- 
gether and left undisturbed for several 
days. The less cement is used the better 
will the articles hold together. 

c _lf there is no objection to darlc- 
colored cement, the very best that can 
be used is probably marine glue, ims 
Is made thus: Ten parts of caoutchouc or 
india rubber are dissolved in 180 parts 
of benzine or petroleum naphtha, witn 



80 

the aid of a gentle heat. When Jhe «. 
Iution is complete, J \ n g * ts 0 f 

solvent has been dm en off. It is wen 
poured out and cart into glased tin 
£3da. It forms dark frown or black 
cakes which are very hard to M*aK. 
This cement requi .es cons derable heal 
to melt it; and to prevent it from tang 
burnt it is best to neat a capsule extern 
ing a piece of it first on a water bath until 
thl ca P ke softens and begins to be quid. 
It is then carefully wiped dry and hea ted 
over a naked flame, under constant stir- 
ring up to about 300° F. The edges of 
the g artFcle to be mended should, if possi- 
ble, also be heated to at least gli t., 
so as to permit the cement to be ap- 
plied at leisure and with care. Ine 
thinner the cement is applied the better 
it binds. 

Meerschaum Cements.— I— If the ma- 
terial k genuine (natural) meerschaum 
a lasting joint can be made between the 
parts by proceeding as follows: Clean a 
clove or two of garlic (the fresher the 
better) by removing all the outside hull 
of skin; thn-w into a little mortar and 
mash to a jaste. Rub this paste over 
each surfac.3 to be united and join quick- 
ly. Bring the parts as closely together 
as possible and fasten in this position. 
Have ready some boiling fresh milk; 

Elace the article in it and continue the 
oiling for 30 minutes. Remove and 
let cool slowly. If properly done, this 
makes a joint that will stand any ordi- 
nary treatment, and is nearly invisible. 
For composition, use a cement made of 
quicklime, rubbed to a thick cream with 
egg albumen. 

t II.— Mix very fine meerschaum shav- 
ings with albumen or dissolve casein in 
water glass, stir finely powdered magne- 
sia into the mass, and use the cement 
at once. This hardens quickly. 

Asbestos Cement— Ground asbestos 
may be made into a cement which will 
stand a high degree of heat by simply 
mixing it with a solution of sodium sili- 
cate By subsequent treatment with a 
solution of calcium chloride the mass 
may be made insoluble, silicate of cal- 
cium being formed. 

A cement said to stand a high degree 
of heat and to be suitable for cernentin* 

f^lJl ° rCelai ? l! or other vessel * intended* 
to hold corrosiv fc acids, is this one; 



I.— Asbestos g 

Barium sulphate.... 8 

Sodium silicate g parts 

By mixing these ingredi .its a ceme 
strong enough to resist the stronse 
nitric acid will be obtained. If hot acids 
are dealt with, the following mixture w fli 
be found to possess still more resistan 
powers: 

II. — Sodium silicate g parts 

Fine sand \ part 

Asbestos powder 1 p ar ^ 

Both these cements take a few hours 
to set. If the cement is wanted to set at 
once, use^ potassium silicate instead of 
sodium silicate. This mixture will he 
instantly effective, and possesses the 
same power of resistance as the other. 

Parisian Cement. — Mix 1 part of 
finely ground glass powder, obtained 
by levigation, with 3 parts of finely pow- 
dered zinc oxide rendered perfectly free 
from carbonic acid by calcination. Be- 
sides prepare a solution of 1 part, by 
weight, of borax in a very small quantity 
of hot water and mix this with 50 parts 
of a highly concentrated zinc chloride 
solution of 1.5 to 1.6 specific gravity 
As is well known the mixture of this 
powder with the liquid into a soft uni- 
form paste is accomplished only imme- 
diately before use. The induration to 
a stonelike mass takes place within a 
few minutes, the admix lure of boras 
retarding the solidification somewhat 
The pure white color of the powder may 
be tinted with ocher, manganese, etc., 
according to the shade desired. 

Strong Cement. — Pour over well* 
washed and cleaned casein 12£ parts of 
boiled linseed oil and the same amount 
of castor oil. Boil. Stir actively and 
add a small amount of a saturated aque- 
ous solution of alum; remove from tiw 
fire and set aside. After a while a nnihj 
looking fluid will separate and rise, xaa 
should be poured off. To the residue 
add 120 parts of rock candy syrup anu 
G parts of dextrin. 

A Cheap and Excellent Cement--— A 
cheap and excellent cement, inso i 
after drying in water, P etr °l eu ^ L ' tP hen 
carbon disulphide, etc., very J ard .2La 6 
dry and of very considerable w ^ 
strength, is composed of casei n ,^ 
some tannic-acid compound, as, e j 
stance, calcium tannate, and is pr e F 
as follows; t . reD ared 

First, a tannin solution is P r ^ b y 
either by dissolving a tannin salt. ^ 
extraction from vegetable sour 
barks from certain trees, etc)< * 



is added clear lime -water (obtained by 
filtering milk of lime, or by letting the 
m ilk stand until the lime subsides) until 
no further precipitation occurs, and red 
litmus paper plunged in the fluid is 
turned blue. The liquid is now sepa- 
rated from its precipitate, either by de- 
cantation or otherwise, and the precipi- 
tate is dried. In operating with large 
quantities of the substance, this is done 
by passing a stream of atmospheric 
air through the same. The lime tan- 
nate obtained thus is then mixed with 
casein in proportions running from 1: 1 
up to 1 : 10, and the mixture, thoroughly 
dried, is milled into the consistency of the 
finest powder. This powder has now 
only to be mixed with water to be ready 
for use, the consistency of the prepara- 
tion depending upon the use to which 
it is to be put. 

Universal Cement. — Take gum arabic, 
100 parts, by weight; starch, 75 parts, by 
weight; white sugar, £1 parts, by weight; 
camphor, 4 parts, by weight. Dissolve 
the gum arabic in a little water; also 
dissolve the starch in a little wafer. Mix 
and add the sugar and cam pi. r. Boil 
on the water bath until a paste formed 
which, on coating, will thicken. 

Cement for Ivory.— Melt together 
equal parts of gutta percha and ordinary 
pitch. The pieces to be united have to 
he warmed. 

Cement for Belts.— Mix 50 parts, by 
weight, of fish glue with equal parts of 
whey and acetic acid. Then add 50 
parts, by weight, of garlic in paste form 
and boil the whole on the water bath. 
At the same time make a solution of 
100 parts, by weight, of gelatin in the 
same quantity of whey, and mix both 
liquids. To the whole add, finally, 50 
parts, by weight, of 90-per-cent alcohol 
and, after filtration, a cement is ob- 
tained which can be readily applied with 
a brush and possesses extraordinary 
binding qualities. 

Cement for Chemical Apparatus. — 
Melt together 20 parts of gutta percha, 

shefia? 3 ° f yell ° W Wax ' and 30 parts of 

Size. Over Portland Cement. — The 
best size to use on Portland cement 
molding for wall paper would ordinarily 
°e glue and alum sire put on thin and 
^arm, made in proportion of A pound 
ot glue and same weight of alum dis- 
g th m Separate P aiis » tlien Poured to- 



Aquarium Cements.— 

I- — Lithari e. . « 

T . der - v.-, 1 ounce 

Linseed oil, enough. 
Drier, enough. 

" irs * three ingredients, ad 
sufficient hm eed oil to make a homoeen 
ous paste, ar d then add a small quirtit 
of drier 1 ns gjould stand a few hou 
before it is isr d. It is said that cla 
joined to i.-n with this cement w 



break befor it will come loose' 

II.— Litharge 1 ounce 

rine vhite sand. . . . 1 ounce 
Plast -r of Paris .... 1 ounce 
Man anese borate. 20 grains 
Rosin, in fine pow- 

T . der *\ : SJ pounds 

.Linseed varnish oil, 
enough. 

III. — Take equal parts of flowers 
sulphur, ammonium chloride, and ir 
filings, and mix thoroughly with boil 
linseed oil, finally, add enough whi 
lead to form a thin paste. 

IV. — Powdered graphite. 6 parts 

Slaked lime 3 parts 

Barium sulphate... 8 parts 
Linseed varnish oil. 7 parts 
V. — Simply mix equal parts of whi 
and red lead with a little kettle-boil 
linseed oil. 

Substitute for Cement on Grind 
Bisks. — A good substitute in place . 
glue or various kinds of cement for fas 
ening emery cloth to the disks of grin 
ers of the Gardner type is to heat or war 
the disk and apply a thin coating p 
beeswax; then put the emery cloth l 
place and allow to set and cool unde 
pressure, 

Knockenplombe.— If 1 part of thymo 
be mixed with % parts of iodoform wj 
obtain a substance that retains its fluid- 
ity down to 72° C. .(161.6° P.). » % 
temperature be carried down to ou 
(14.0° F.) it suddenly becomes solid and 
hard. If, in its liquid condition, this 
substance be mixed intimately with an 
equal quantity of calcined bone it forms 
a cement that can be molded or kneaded 
into any shape, that, at the temperatur 
of the body (9B° F.), becomes as hard as 
stone, a fact that suggests many useful 
purposes to which the mixture may be 
put. 

Cement for General Use.— Take gum 
arabic, 100 parts, by weight; starch, 7G 




Cement.— Pour ovei well- 
w.'K and cleaned casei a 18* parts 
of boiled linseed oil and the same amount 
on the fire and Ting 



of boiled 
of castor oi 



i, put •• 

to a boil; stir actively and j dd a s o_. 
amount of a saturated aquetus solution 
of alum; remove from the hre and set 
side. After standing a while a milky 
wi 

nd rise to the top. 

oured off and to the icbjmuc — ~ 

arts of rock-candy syrup and 6 parts oi 
extrine. 

Syndeticon.— L— Slake 100 parts of 
urnt dme with 50 parts of water, pour 
ff the supernatant water; next, dissolve 
0 parts of lump sugar in lb'O parts of 
ater, add to the solution 15 parts of the 
laked lime, heat to 70° or 80° C. (158° to 
76° F.), and set aside shaking fre- 
quently. Finally dissolve 50 to 60 parts 
of genuine Cologne glue in 250 parts of 
he clear solution. 

II. — A solution of 10 parts gum ara- 
ic and 30 parts of sugar in 100 parts of 
oda water glass. 

III. — A hot solution of 50 parts of 
Cologne glue in 60 parts of a 20-pcr-ccnt 
queous calcium-chloride solution. 

IV. — A solution of 50 parts of Co- 
ogne glue in 60 parts of acetic acid. 

V. — Soak isinglass (fish bladder) in 
cctic acid of 70 per cent until it swells up, 

then rub it up, adding a little water dur- 
ng the process. 

"Shio Liao."— Under this name the 
Chinese manufacture an excellent ce- 
ment which takes the place of glue, and 
with which gypsum, marble, porcelain, 
stone, and stoneware can be cemented. 
It consists of the following parts (by 
weight); Slaked powdered lime, 54 
parts; powdered alum, 6 parts; and 
fresh, well - strained blood, 40 parts. 
Inese materials are stirred thoroughly 
until an intimately bound mass of the 
consistency of a more or less stiff salve 
is obtained. In paste form this mass is 
used as cement; in a liquid state it is 
employed for painting aft sorts of arti- 
cles winch are to be rendered waterproof 
and durable. Cardboard covers, which 
are coated with it two or three times be- 



all 



ooking fluid will separate at the bottom 
the top. This should be 
oured off and to the residue add 120 



come as hard as wood. The Chinese tw 
their houses with "shio liao" and el 
their barrels with it, in which thev trnl? 
port oil and other greasy substances 
LUTES. 

Lutes always consist of a menstrua 
and dissolved or suspended solids and 
they must not be attacked by the gasp 
and liquids coming in contact with them 
In some cases the constituents of the lut" 
react to form a more strongly adhering 
mass. *» 

The conditions of application are, in 
brief: 

(a) Heating the composition to raak 
it plastic until firmly fixed in place. 
(6) Heating the surfaces. 

(c) Applying the lute with water or 
volatile solvent, which is allowed to vol 
tilize. 

(d) Moistening the surfaces with w 
ter, oil, etc. (the menstruum of the lu 
itself). 

(e) Applying the lute in workable co 
dition and the setting taking place 
chemical reactions, 

(/) Setting by hydration. 

(g) Setting by oxidation. 

These principles wil ; be found to cov 
nearly all cases. 

Joints should no be ill-fitting, 
pending upon the ute to do what the 
pipes or other parts of the apparatus 
should do. In most cases one part of 
the fil ing should overlap the other, so 
as to nake a small amount of the lute 
effed re and to keep the parts of the ap- 
para as rigid, as a luted joint is not 
supi Dsed to be a particularly strong one, 
but rather one quickly applied, effective 
while in place and easily removed. 

Very moderate amounts of the lute 
should be used, as large amounts are 
likeiy to develop cracks, be rubbed oil, 

A classification may be given as fol- 
lows: 

(1) Plaster of Paris. 

(2) Hydraulic cement. 

(3) Clay. 

(4) Lime. 

(5) Asphalt and pitch. 

(6) Rosin. 

(7) Rubber. 

(8) Linseed oil. 
(0) Casein and albumen. 

(10) Silicates of soda and oxycj 
ride cements. 

(11) Fl our and starch. ~ r 

(12) Miscellaneous, including 
compounds. V1 

I. Plaster of Paris is, of course, 
used alone as a paste, which 4 



